Getting to Know You and The Presidential Campaign
Thank you for participating in our study. We will be asking you some questions about faith and politics during this important election season. Your input is important to us, so please try to give us as detailed of answers as possible. All of the exercises are programmed in private mode so it is just us the research team that will see these responses, not the other participants.     What to expect:  When the project “officially” kicks off on Tuesday July 5th you will be sent an email with a link to get started. You must register and complete your profile that day and complete the first day of assigned activities on Tuesday. Each morning of the project, additional activities will be assigned. We will send you an email reminder but you do not need to wait for the email to get started. Daily tasks should take approximately 30 – 45 minutes (with some additional time to respond to follow up questions), but you may find some days take a little more or a little less. You can do them all at once, or divide them up throughout the day at a time that is convenient for you—whatever works best with your busy schedule!  If you are unable to complete the activities that day, you may be allowed to make some of them up the following day. Please contact the moderator at nikki@mindsparklab.com if you need additional time.  Your job here is really important.  Your job is to be honest and open. For this research, it's important for you to know that we want you to be able to respond with your candid thoughts and feelings. When we're out in the world in public, we often can't really say what we think about some things.  We have to be polite or worry about hurting someone's feelings. But this is different. You get the chance to share how you really feel about the issues that we talk about.   Now I'd like to know a bit more about you.   First name Occupation A little about your family, pets – whomever or whatever is living with you in your home  

Catholic Women

	➢	Accounting Coordinator Sr. I live alone with 2 dogs

	➢	My name is Stephanie.  I am a stay at home mom. My husband and I have 3 children, 14yr boy, 12 yr. girl and 7yr old girl, living at home with us. We have a pet dog.

	➢	Hello, I'm Donna and a teacher. I have an Australian Shepard who is like my son. Right now my cousin is staying with me while her house is finished being built.

	➢	My name is Theresa Scott and I work from home doing vehicle accident claims and medical claims. I have been working from home for over 11 yrs. and love it. I live alone but with several cats and 4 ponies and 2 horses and several raccoons as well. I live in a rural area of FL but I am from Oregon and moved here 17 years ago with my boyfriend who passed away 3 yrs. ago. I hope to move back to Oregon in the next couple of years God willing. I can transport my cats and ponies/ horses but not sure how to transport my raccoons and also not sure how they will like the climate change.lol

	➢	Hi I'm Rebecca.  I'm a high school math teacher.  I live by myself and have no pets.

	➢	Rose. I am a bartender. I live with my husband and 19-year-old daughter. We have a dog named Coco

	➢	Hi! My name is Kathy and I'm lucky enough to be a homemaker where I can stay with my two-year-old. Right now I am 8 months pregnant and due to have my second son July 28th! Right now is the anxious waiting period. Besides myself, husband and son in the house we also have two cats. We live in Phoenix, AZ so right now the weather is miserable and we run from air conditioned house to air conditioned car to air conditioned buildings. I just keep reminding myself that it's better than shoveling snow in the winter! I look forward to being able to give my thoughts and opinions in this exercise because you're right in the open world politeness rules and we can't always be as candid or honest as we like. Thank you for this opportunity!

	➢	I am Michele and I have several jobs. I am an educator and I took a sabbatical last year. I will go back in the fall of this year to substitute teach. I am certified in elementary and middle school math education. I also tutor high schoolers for the SAT's and I am a SAT rater. In addition, I live with my husband and children. My husband is an accountant and I work part time for him as an accounting office mgr. We have 3 pets, all adorable cats. I have 4 children.  My oldest son recently became an office in the air force after having graduated from college and worked in education.  My next son just graduated as a civil engineer from college and is working in his field. My 3rd son just graduated high school and is enjoying a summer at the shore and then will attend community college in the fall. Lastly, my daughter will be entering 8th grade and will be looking forward to researching high schools.


	➢	Sarah, Administrative Assistant. I have been married for almost 6 years and have three lovely cats. The oldest to youngest names include: Jet, Ash, and Kol. My husband's name is Michael and we met when we worked together back when I was in high school and 16 years old. We were friends for a long time and then in college he got up the nerves to ask me on a date and here we are today. We just bought our home a year and three months ago and love it. I am currently 27 years old and will turn 28 this August.

	➢	Good Afternoon, my name is Joanne, I currently live with my Daughter who is 17, and Son who is 11, and my elderly mother who will soon be 90 years young. I work full-time for a Gas Pipeline Company, as a Network Control Technician III for the last 16 years. We currently have two dogs that we share our home with.

	➢	My name is Kelli and I'm a stay-at-home mom. I have two little boys, Jacob and Nathan. Jacob is nearly 3 and Nathan is 16 months. My husband, John, is a reporter for The Catholic Telegraph (the monthly newspaper for the Archdiocese of Cincinnati).

	➢	My name is Theresa Scott and I work from home doing vehicle accident claims and medical claims. I have been working from home for over 11 yrs. and love it. I live alone but with several cats and 4 ponies and 2 horses and several raccoons as well. I live in a rural area of FL but I am from Oregon and moved here 17 years ago with my boyfriend who passed away 3 yrs. ago. I hope to move back to Oregon in the next couple of years God willing. I can transport my cats and ponies/ horses but not sure how to transport my raccoons and also not sure how they will like the climate change.lol

	➢	Hi Nikki, my name is Lola and professionally I am an accounting manager. I love puzzles and that's what accounting is to me a big puzzle.  Some would not agree; but I find it makes sense and is relatively easy once you have a good concept of the principles. I have been married for 38 years to an amazing man.  We have two daughters who live quite a distance from us so we don't see them often.  We try to see them at least a couple of times a year. We have had several pets over the years and are now down to one cat, Mittens, who is 17 years old.  Pets are a joy but we have decided that Mittens will be our last pet.  It's time to focus on traveling and enjoying life and not worrying about managing pets. Hope you are having a great day.

	➢	Jeanne, Registered Nurse, Live with Spouse; one child in grade school.

	➢	Noreen. Administrative Assistant. I am living alone.  My children (twins) are 30 years old and living on their own.  I have two cats.

	➢	Eileen, Part time sales associate for toy and teacher resources store. I am married, have 2 children, a boy, 23 and a girl, 11.  My son just graduated from college and my daughter is going into the 6th.  My husband is a sales rep for a snack cake company.  We are involved in our church, my daughter sings in choir and also altar servers.  She will be making her confirmation next Spring.  We like to camp, travel, spend time with family and keep busy with my daughter's sports and activities.  We have a basset named Oskar, a cat named Apollo, two turtles and 3 hermit crabs.

	➢	My name is Ashley. I am a wedding coordinator. I live with my boyfriend of 2 years; his name is David. I have a year and a half old west highland white terrier named Lady, or as I love to call her, Monster. We live in the Fabulous Las Vegas, Nevada.

	•	My name is Pat Slattery. I work for myself, sometimes tutoring, sometimes taking care of elderly clients. I didn't get notified of the survey until very late last night so I am starting today and hoping it's allowed. I live with my daughter, her husband, her little boys and two small dogs.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	Quinn. Entry-Level Paralegal. I live alone without any pets. (Male)

	➢	Katrina. Retail Sales Associate (Part-time). Live at home with both parents and four youngest siblings (ages 6y-18m) (Female)
	➢	Hey, my name is Aaron. I am a firefighter in the metro Atlanta area. My home life currently consists of me and my dog. I'm on the hunt for a roommate though. (Male)
	➢	Hello my name is Paul and I work as an assistant manager in retail I am also attending school full time currently. I live with my girlfriend and my three children from my previous marriage my girlfriend is currently in the process of getting her Ph.D. which is why we currently live in a city to be closer to both of our schools. (Male)
	➢	Good morning!  My first name is Derek and I am a construction project manager for a county government in western North Carolina.  My family includes my wife, our four-year-old daughter, and a `8-month old standard Poodle named "Pistol Pete."  We have a baby on the way, due to be born in mid-September. (Male)
	➢	My first name is Leah. I work as Executive Director for a (very) small Nonprofit that offers Biblical and Classics (really classical political philosophy classes on Plato, Aristotle, Founding Fathers, etc...) courses online to churches in the local area and, soon, nationwide. I work at home, currently residing with my parents as my father is the head of our organization. He's a pastor and professor who teaches our online courses. He has his PhD in political philosophy, a JD, and a ThD in Old Testament, which is why our classes focus on Bible + Political Philosophy. My mother is an English teacher at a Christian high school, but her English classes go over our political philosophy material (Plato, etc...). I have a younger brother who was adopted from Russia, and has learning disabilities. He has graduated high school, but is having difficulty finding a job. We also have a Cavalier King Charles Spaniel named Pepper who lives with us. (Female)
	➢	Hello Research Team, I write a blog every once in a while, just to let things out and talking about things, it’s nothing fancy and I really don't think anyone reads it, but this kind of reminds me of that. In my head I am imagining the team reading this, giving you all faces and names. So as I write, I will type like I am speaking with you. Of course I will type as properly as I am able to, but keep in mind I am not a wonderful speller. Here goes nothing. Hello guys, my name is Jessica Dooley, I am 23 turning 24 in October. I promise the next thing I say isn't going to be "I like long walks on the beach at sunset...". I live in Savannah, Georgia with the love of my life, Jamie. We have known each other for what feels like forever. We both lived in small towns next to each other in Georgia when we met in high school. Our schools were competing against each other in a wrestling match. Sounds cute right? Well, our story is a little more roller coaster than gondola ride. Looks as though we've figured it out so far! I am currently going back to school after getting some medical issues under control. I am excited to be finishing my Bachelor's in Biology sometime soon. I work full-time as a tax preparer for a bilingual tax office. It seems strange I ended up in such a profession considering I want to work with animals for a living, but a friend of mine (who owns the business) took a chance on me when I needed a job. Four years has passed and I have accomplished a ton! Jamie and I are going to be making an offer on a house sometime soon and looking into buying a new car too! Oh, I have forgotten my favorite part! We have two of the cutest monster of dogs. One is Max, he's a 12-year-old Golden Retriever / Black Labrador mix. I have had him since he was six months old. The other dog is Luna; she is a six month old Great Dane / Silver Labrador mix. We have had her since she was six weeks old, and so far she hasn't stopped growing! She is already taller than Max. Overall they are the funniest puppies I have ever seen, but they certainly can be challenging. I have had some hardships that a 23-year-old shouldn't have had to go through, but I made it through and at the point I am at now, I wouldn't trade a second of my life. I love where I am at and who and what I have around me. I may not be exactly where I want to be in life, but I am getting there at a pace I can live with. Hopefully that gave you a little peak into the life and mind of Jessica (Female)
	➢	My name is Victoria and I'm a stay at home mother to four children. I live with my husband and my kids ages are 5, 3, 2 and a 1-year-old. We have 1 dog and 1 cat. (Female)
	➢	I'm Justin, and currently work as an Intervention Specialist (Special Education teacher) at a local suburban area elementary school. I teach kids, who have been diagnosed with emotional disturbances, from first through fourth grades in all content areas. My wife and I purchased our first home in mid-October 2015 and we currently live with our one-year-old puppy. (Male)
	➢	My name is Tyler. I am self-employed and work doing a variety of things including reselling physical products, assisting with web based services, bookkeeping, and obtaining legal data from courthouses. My wife and I are expecting our first child at the end of the year! We currently have two cats that we love very much as well. (Male)
	➢	My name is Mariah. I am an Inside Sales representative for a utility distributor that sells supplies to build power lines. I live with my fiancé, our 1-year-old son (he was a twin, and his brother passed away of SIDS at 4 months...just want to state this if I mention my "sons" later.) We also have a 6-year-old basset hound. (Female)
	➢	Hi there, my name is Leslea. I am 22 years old. Ever since I was 15, I have been in the service industry. I have served at six different restaurants. I guess you could say that I really enjoy it. I currently live with my boyfriend and another roommate. It is the type of independence that I really enjoy. We have a cat who is like a little baby that needs attention, but I would not have him any other way. (Female)
	➢	My name is Kegan, and I work as an online marketplace seller for new and used media goods, as well as independently doing market research studies for supplemental family income. I shuttle between my mother's home (three people, five dogs, eleven cats), and my grandmother's home (two people, eleven cats). My current career path works out well due to my cerebral palsy; I am able to work on my own schedule, and still manage to have time for various familial obligations. (Male)
	➢	My name is Holly. I have a husband, Paul, 39, and a son, Casey, 10. My husband is my son's step-father. My son's biological father is uninvolved in his life. I also have four step-children who don't live in my home: Christine, 17; Joseph, 15; Levi, 11; Benjamin, 9. At home, we have five pets. We have a rabbit, a ball python, and three cats. I do not have a job outside the home. I am a stay-at-home mom, and I homeschool my son. I do enjoy buying and selling Lego sets on eBay as a means of making some extra money for my family. (Female)
	➢	Hello. My name is John. I work as an analyst in the treasury department of one of the largest home building companies in the US. I currently live with my parents and brother and am getting married in October. In my free time, I enjoy playing and listening to music, playing video games, weightlifting, cooking, traveling, and reading about current events, economics, and politics. I also enjoy learning about other cultures, and I speak German. (Male)
	➢	First Name: Warren Occupation: Full-time Student at Georgia State University, Part-time worship leader at Bastion Church, Part-time grocery stocker at Lowe's Foods. Living Situation: When not in school I live in Hickory, NC with my family (mom, dad, and three younger siblings). When in school I live with my cousin in Atlanta, GA (Male)
	➢	Hello! MY first name is Christian. I work two jobs, one full time in construction and a part time night job in food service. I live with a roommate and don't really have time for any hobbies with two jobs and doing Mturk at home. (Male)
Evangelical Women

	➢	god morning!!  my name is Cynthia I am involved with home interior decorating and design...I have three kids ages 4 thru 17 which keeps me pretty busy on most days I have a puppy names skipper and a horse

	➢	My name is Lisa and I work as a Pension Administrator for Xerox. My husband and I live together with our 13-year-old daughter and our cat Chloe.

	➢	My name is Jenette Mulholland. I am an English Language Arts teacher in an urban charter school. I am a mother to six children: three biological, one in Heaven, and two step children. My husband is a Social Studies teacher and high school soccer coach. We have three cats and one dog. Our lives are never dull!

	➢	My name is Kelly and I'm an office manager for a retail store. I have two younger brothers and one is staying with me for a while. Love animals of all kind.... I have a border collie and a couple of cats...feed birds and stray animals.

	➢	Amber. Retail. I’m married and have 3 sons.  25, 16, 6.

	➢	Debbie. Work at an auto auction. I am married, have one daughter who is grown married and on her own. Just adopted a son age 14 who has lived with us 2 years prior to adopting him earlier this year. We also have 2 dogs.

	➢	Liz. Homemaker. I live with my husband of 20+ years and our "rescue dog" Piccolo who is our little bundle of furry energy. He is half Yorkshire Terrier) and half Jack Russell Terrier which makes for an interesting blend of sleepy "lap dog" & Mexican "jumping bean". We live in a midcentury brick house which we just moved into during Holy Week this year, so we're mostly moved in but are still unpacking assorted boxes, (none of which are labeled but all look EXACTLY alike lol. Still settling in and using hot plate, microwave and a dorm fridge until we can find appliances and accessories to fit through the door in this " one of a kind" house we call home sweet home. It's a split level sort of and the stairwell to kitchen level is extremely narrow and the foyer landing is so narrow that you cannot even open the front door all the way because it hits the stairs. Probably more than you cared to know, but essentially, we're getting settled in and learning about " The Pittsburgh Way" of things.... Go Penguins 2016 Stanley Cup Champions!!

	➢	Hi, and thank you for choosing me to participate!  My name is Shelley.  I own my own small business, which supported us for over a decade, until about the last year and a half.  It's failing, badly, since the middle class up and disappeared.  So now I still run my business, but I also work on Amazon Turk, and I do some surveys, for money.  My husband had to get an outside, low-paying service job.  I have 3 kids and 2 pets and we all live together in Largo, Florida.

	➢	My name is Jolene. I am a credit specialist for a telecom company.  I have 4 grown kids and 7 grand kids.  I am married to the man I love for the last 14 years.

	➢	Jennifer Sheffield. I'm a homemaker. I'm married to a wonderful man George. I have my two grandchildren living with us Eric is 10, Adriona is 8. We have a family dog named Rudy.

	➢	my name is Susan and I am a 52-year-old female. I am married and have 2 children, a daughter who is 11 and a son who is 16. we have a small jack Russell named snicker's. I drive a dump truck for a construction company. we spend a lot of time at the beach and love the outdoors. we are pretty busy with the kids and they're sports during the school season. right now we're just enjoying the summer.

	➢	My name is Mary; I am a homeschooling stay at home mom to seven kids.  Six of them are still school age and one is grown and going to college but still living at home.  I have been happily married for almost 21 years.  We have three dogs, a cat, two birds, and two rabbits.

	➢	First Name: Christine * Occupation: Transcriptionist * I live in a slice of heaven a block away from the shoreline of Lake Erie in the Pennsylvania panhandle. I spend my life tending to my 36-year-old disabled daughter, who is very bright and ambulatory but who cannot speak due to profound mental retardation. My 20-year-old son still lingers here at home with us, but I am in the process of selling my beautiful home to move 40 miles away to another slice of heaven where my husband-to-be and I grow, eat and can our own food. I am mommy to two pugs and my hobby is making pug videos and train videos and I have two websites: pugrealitytv.com and trainumentary.com.

	➢	Sarah. I am a lunch lady at a home school academy. I have been married for 12 years and have 2 daughters. We also have a dog.

	➢	My name is Glenda I'm on disability - I have MS.  My last job was an Exec. Admin. Asst. to the CEO/CFO. I live with my Chihuahuas.  I have two, one is my service dog (my little girl) and the other is her older brother (who is in the pic with me).  Their names are Snoopy and Bambi.

	➢	My first name is Sara.  I have a degree in physical therapy and work with children with developmental disabilities. I am married to my college sweetheart Mark and we have two children Catherine age 10 1/2 and Connor age 6.  We have a beautiful 2-year-old golden retriever named Piper.

	➢	Jessica. Claims processor for an insurance company. I live with my fabulous husband of 17 years and our two awesome tween daughters. We also have two cats.


Decision-making Process for Presidential Election
We would love to know more about your views of this year’s Presidential election. Take some time to answer the following questions:  

How closely have you been following the Presidential election? Describe what has led you to follow it or not?      

Catholic Women

	➢	A little.  I am starting to follow it closer now

	➢	“I was following the election more closely during the debates and immediately following then I am currently. Once the nominees were narrowed down to Trump and Clinton I continued to follow, however, I have become somewhat uninterested and discouraged.”

	➢	“I have been watching this election pretty closely. I watch my local news, CNN and Fox News to get insight into what is happening. I am following both candidates to get insight into their opinions on various topics. I want to be informed. I think politics are important to all of us and we should all be paying attention. I have always been pretty interested in politics so this election is no different.”

	➢	“I've been following it a bit.  I'm mostly following it because I'm somewhat horrified by the prospect of the 2016 election.  Our candidates are just scary and I feel that the primaries were somewhat rigged.”
	o	[What scares you?] “Neither candidate seems like a good leader or even a decent person. They both seem more interested in entertaining and their own interests than anything that the American people want it need.”

	➢	I have stopped following it. The awful mudslinging has led me away. I seriously cannot stand the way they handle themselves on the debates

	➢	I have been following the election very closely. I love watching the nominee’s speeches and listening to ideas and expectations. It's been extremely interesting on the Republican side seeing who's dropped out and who's exceeding, which surprisingly a non-politician! I don't know if anyone's seen the movie Idiocrasy with Luke Wilson but I'm pretty sure my fears from the movie are coming true. I have really enjoyed watching the debates and reading about the progress because this time around because of Donald Trump I think there has been a lot of under cutting and a lot of inside issues brought to the table normally kept hush hush because the money was brought in from those people. I love watching the blame for this and that be tossed around and candidates aren't afraid to drop some names this time either! Almost like watching a good talk show. But no matter the outcome of this election I do have general fears about the direction each candidate would take us.

	➢	I have been following the election very closely this year because it has been so different as compared to other years. The course of it has not followed the rules and predictions that we have grown accustomed to in the past. The whole process seems to be setting new tones, new rules, new outcomes. It has had its entertainment value but now I know we must take it seriously because it effects our future as a nation, society, family, etc.

	➢	I will follow the election very closely as Trump is such a wild card it is hard to think of him as being a good president. I think Ms. Clinton has more of the same views that I do on both family and faith.

	➢	I have been following it pretty closely. By that I mean I have been the most interested in the big ticket items of the campaigns. I don't really care for the backlash that the candidates do on tv. I know it makes for good TV but I tune that stuff out because I don't want to see them argue, I would rather like to see them actually talk more about their campaigns. It is so hard to determine what they really mean because they are politicians and work their way around questions and platforms. I have been following it greatly because of my interest in what the democrats are planning. I have seen the consequences of Obama's reign and that has led me to follow the race. His healthcare coverage is ridiculous and I have witnessed firsthand how having it can be abused. I needed to go to the ER one night and it was all full. I had to wait in the waiting room with screaming pains because all of the beds were full and they didn't have any more to put me in. I was in a room full of waiting patients and I was put next to get a bed because of my respiratory problems. I had trouble breathing and getting oxygen and yet I had to wait in the waiting room because some kid had a sniffly nose. I know that because when she came out she said to her mommy, “so the meds will help my sniffly nose?" I was so irritated which then caused my airway to block more so they had to rush me back. This is why I follow all the politics because this needs to end.
	o	[How do you go about determining what the candidates really mean? How do you figure out what is real?] I try to interpret what they mean through what they say. I try to decide for myself what they are really saying or if they are just blowing steam. I listen to their passion in their voice and what things they emphasize in their campaigns to determine if it feels real. I also double check facts against what they say if I am unsure.  

	➢	It's very difficult not to follow the Presidential election, as every time you turn on the television news, one candidate or another is spouting off their views. If you read a newspaper, there are daily stories about the candidate's antics. The internet is also full of feature articles both negative and positive on each of the candidates.
	o	[Do you feel like this is different than in past years?] Yes! Politics of the past years, were never as dirty and underhanded and disgraceful as they are today. It's very sad, to see what our country's political climate has become

	➢	I follow it enough to know who is running. I was paying closer attention before the nominees were chosen. I currently do not approve of either candidate and have not been following either of them much.
	o	[Given your feelings about the candidates thus far, are you planning on voting? If you are, how do you think you'll make that decision?] I am planning to vote, but not for Trump or Clinton. I will probably vote for Gary Johnson (libertarian). Though I do not agree with several of his stances I believe we need a third party. If enough people vote for a third party, it will lead credence to the idea and hopefully start to turn our political system around and make it less polarized.   

	➢	I do try to follow related to "bigger" issues such as homeland security, the budget and education/etc. [To clarify, are you following the Presidential election based on these "bigger" issues you stated and the candidates' position on these issues? What are you looking for to hear or to relate to that leads you to follow these issues or candidates?]  I am following the issues in general on different searches, but the education piece is of particular interest. I am looking to really see how the candidates stand as their approaches are in stark contrast to each other and would have a major impact. Economical and socially... There are so many issues to follow. And bipartisan is a highly skilled value, also.

	➢	I have been following the candidates and have watched the debates.  My primary reason for following them is to establish an educated opinion on who I will vote for in November.

	➢	I have been following it pretty closely.  I usually buy the paper every day.  I think I am following it more closely because some of the things said by one of the candidates is so bizarre.

	➢	Very closely.  I think the dynamics are fascinating.  Two completely different sides of the coin, but I find that this year is particularly contentious.  It used to be that candidates would try to be subtle in their jabs on each other's qualifications, but nowadays it's basically he's a "psychopath" and she's a "liar”.  I don't like that.  The first president I voted for was Ronald Reagan, back when president's acted presidential.  I liked him because he was kind.  I'm hard pressed to pick a candidate this time around.

	➢	I have been following it more closely than usual because I'm hoping that Clinton wins.

	➢	I have been following the election race on and off throughout. I especially love watching the debates between candidates. I have to say that I have followed this election race more than I had prior ones. Definitely more entertaining due to Trump and his eccentric and brash point of view. Trump may not have a history in politics but I feel he has a more of a realistic and relatable direction. Trump brings a more outside perspective as opposed to this 'stepford wives' kind of mold politician seem to encompass these days. He challenged his opponents and caught them off guard at times. Trump is not afraid to speak up and challenge. Now with that being said he may tend to stick his foot in his mouth at times and say completely racist comments I sometimes find myself torn between cringing and somewhat applauding him for not holding back and just unleashing.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	I only follow what my friends tell me they have heard/seen on the news. I occasionally see something on the TVs at the gym. (Male)

	➢	As close as Facebook and listening to group discussions. I haven't followed all the news concerning polls, rallies, hear-say, and what-not. I am up to date with a few particulars, but am heavily influenced by my peers' opinions. I was following closely when Dr. Ben Carson was still in the race, but when he dropped out (followed closely by Ted Cruz) I lost interest. Mainly because of how depressing it was that Trump and Clinton were leading. (Female)

	➢	I would say I have only been moderately been following the election so far part of that reason is the corruption and negativity that has been flowing so freely from both sides of the isle. I was following it a little closer when Bernie was still in the primary phase of the election because I believe we as a country need a change in this country and he was a fresh take at the process (Male)

	➢	I typically follow elections pretty carefully.  This particular year, though, it seems as though I am following even more closely than normal.  I would have to say that this is probably because I have more "skin in the game;" that is, I'm a homeowner, gainfully employed, have a family, and an expanding need for confidence in the future, both for myself and family, and for our country. (Male)

	➢	I follow it day by day because I love election seasons. My entire family does. I probably followed closer on actual primary election nights than I am at the current moment (eagerly waiting for the debates and conventions though). I usually scan the headlines on Drudge every day, and if I'm available at night, I always try to watch the Rachel Maddow show. As we get closer to the election, I'll be following Realclear politics closely too. (Female)

	➢	I have been following the election quite closely. I have followed the election because there are two fairly non-traditional Presidential candidates who are completely different from one another: Donald Trump (a businessman with virtually no political ties) and Hillary Clinton (a political lifer and the wife of former President Bill Clinton). (Male)

	➢	I have very closely been following this election. I believe that the threats of things like debt, international unrest, and climate change make this a very important election. I have watched almost all of the presidential debates and even parts of some of the town hall meetings. (Male)

	➢	I know basic things that are going on and pay attention to the hot topics that the media tends to cover, but I don't necessarily do my own research into the candidates. I'm not huge on politics, so I usually just find a couple of issues that are important to me and see what they have to say about those. (Female)

	➢	I have been following rather closely. I think that it is important to know what you are deciding upon. I mean anyone can tell you the dirty news, but to be able to see them debating, it is another story. I think that facial expressions show most things and that is why I have been paying attention. (Female)

	➢	I am following it less closely then I was in the earlier stages. I am a big Bernie Sanders supporter and when it got narrowed down between Trump or Clinton, I became less interested and saddened by the decision that America has made. (Female)
	o	[How do you think you will follow the political exchanges as the election nears? Do you plan to vote?] I will continue to follow the debates and the stands of the two candidates and I do plan on voting. I am an avid supporter of voting rights. I am unsure about how I plan to vote, but I will not be voting for Trump.  

	➢	I follow the election closely, since it's constantly in the TV news or being discussed via social media by my friends. (Male)

	➢	Well I haven't followed the election as closely as I probably should, I’m more invested than I’ve been in past elections. My main motivation has been my surprise in the way that it has gone. Especially given the fact that Trump ended up getting the Republican nomination. I really thought he would not be in it long enough to do that. Most of my following of this election has been due to shock and entertainment. (Female)
	o	[What makes you more invested this year than in previous elections?]  The main reason is this is only the second election I've actually been able to vote in. The first one I was only 18 and not that invested in the world around me in general.  Now that I'm older and have children of my own, I see the value in knowing about politics and trying to make an informative voting decision.

	➢	I have been moderately active in seeking information about the candidates. The primary reason I would like to vote this year is to try and help preserve the family and religious values our nation used to honor. (Female)

	➢	I have been following it pretty closely. I try to watch a couple different news networks at least a few times a week to try and get both sides of the story. I certainly am paying much more attention than I ever have before. I am paying such close attention because I feel that this is a particularly important election. I feel as if our country is at a divisive moment and the next president will affect how where the path leads us. (Male)

	➢	Very closely for a handful of reasons. The first and most important reason is that this is the first election I will get to vote in, and I believe it is my duty as a citizen of a Democratic Republic to not waste the opportunity to vote. Second, it is helpful in many of my classes and extra credit assignments to know what is going on in the world. Third, I have serious concerns about a number of social issues our country is facing at the moment. (Male)

	➢	I would say that I have followed the presidential election fairly closely so far. I have been interested in politics ever since the 2008 Presidential election when I was in high school. I followed the 2012 Presidential election very closely, and as an extension, I have kept up with the 2016 Presidential election as well. The political process is interesting to me, and I think many issues in foreign and domestic policy are very important in today's world, and both of these have led me to follow politics. (Male)

	➢	I started following after the Orlando shootings. After seeing how that was handled and how corrupt it seemed to me, I got more involved. (Male)

	➢	I have been following it off and on. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	yes! I have and I would have to say I followed it very closely during the primary season I follow it now but not as diligently since the presidential nominees are established but I am looking forward to viewing during the conventions

	➢	I have followed it somewhat, but not as closely as I have other Presidential elections. This is partly because the candidates don't interest me and I find it difficult to respect them.

	➢	The election is so very important but I've had a hard time following this one. I really don't like either of them. Trump is the closest to my ideals. Sometimes the things they both say really upset me.

	➢	I do a little.  I don’t go out of my way to follow.  But if it’s on tv I will watch it.  And if I see stuff online or social media I read it.

	➢	I have not been following it real closely. I never do. Right now there is so much bashing other candidates and political "stuff" going on. I chose to ignore all of it. Then when it gets closer to election time and I know who the candidates are I will do my own in depth research on each candidate and try to tune out all the "lies" so I can make an informed decision of who to vote for.

	➢	I have not paid very much attention for the past several months, but that is changing.  I feel the primaries were a joke.  I have been reading articles lately on Donald Trump and I am amazing how hated he is in the media and among his own party.  This "hate" is only helping him, as it shows what an outsider he is.  So, now, I closely evaluate each article as to its source, as there is no objective media and everyone has an agenda.

	➢	I have been mostly just seeing campaign ads on tv, Internet ads and often it comes up in discussions after church or while hanging out with friends.
	➢	At first I was just basically holding my breath for the primaries because it wasn't clear which of republicans would make the cut and my first choices didn't make it.
	➢	Then I kind of held my breath because I really didn't want to see Hillary Clinton win and I thought maybe she might be held back because of her violations of email policies etc., but unfortunately, for us, it hasn't seemed to affect her race.

	➢	I have been watching this campaign. As I really don't like either one of them all that much I am more swaying forwards Clinton.
	➢	I do believe in a lot of things that trump is saying I find it hard for any of these to benefit anyone in the long run.

	➢	this is the first time in my life that I have followed the election so closely. I always just voted democrat at every election except this year. I am so sick of a government who doesn't care about the people. In my opinion they are all corrupt and waste our tax money on things we the people would never spend on. we are so far in debt now that'll it will take a genius to get us out.

	➢	I haven't been following as closely as previous elections.  I am honestly waiting until everything is final and we are down to the front runners.  With social media it's hard to pick out the truth from everyone's perception, so I figure I will research more closely when it gets closer to the time to vote.

	➢	Very Closely is how I have been following this year’s presidential election. I care greatly that a slimy liar like Hillary Clinton is NOT elected. I am an army vet who was stationed in Bangkok during the fall of Saigon and I CANNOT imagine how I would have felt had my country abandoned me the way Clinton turned her back on the requests for security and help from our people in Benghazi. Her campaign funds come from the same people who are terrorists and trying to kill us. She is evil. I don't like Trump either, but he did not turn his back on his country and take “donations" from all sorts of terrorist organizations.

	➢	I follow the election process each time, but this year has been terrible. I have always been a fan of Mike Huckabee, but he is too conservative to win. Our country has become so divided and the insults hurled from both sides have been brutal. I have never been a fan of Obama, but I was raised to respect whoever was put in charge of our country.
	➢	I am definitely not a fan of Trump and cannot believe he is going to be the Republican nominee. I had started to hear more about Kasich and become a fan of his, but by then it was too late. The media had made it all about Trump and we weren't hearing much about the other candidates.

	➢	I follow it closely.  I feel like I cannot get enough info on it.
	o	[How are you following closely? What are you looking at and what are you looking for?] I followed the election a lot closer earlier in the year before the primary in my state. Now that there are 2 presumptive nominees, I haven't been following it as closely.
	o	[Why do you think you pay less attention now that the nominees have been (presumptively) chosen?] I haven't followed it as closely because most of the comments and rhetoric from the candidates is most jabs at the other, and I don't want to watch or listen to that or get caught up in arguments.  

	➢	I follow politics even during non-presidential election years and feel it is important to be informed.  I consider myself a conservative first then a Republican.  I listen to a lot of conservative talk radio and watched at least 75% of the Republican primary debates.  I feel it is important to be informed so I could make the decision I felt was best when voting in the primaries. I haven't been following it a ton. I'm not a fan of either of the two leading candidates and as they each emerged as the forerunner of their respective political parties my interest waned. Our town did host both of them, so that was exciting even if you don't support them, it's nice to see them locally.

	➢	I normally don't follow the election at all.  But this year I'm kind of not really following it.  The reason being the people who are running.


Imagine you could write a short note to the Presidential candidates, to tell them how you will be making up your mind and how they can earn your vote.  Please let us know what you would say.  

Catholic Women

	➢	I will be making my decision on experience of leadership and how well they handled being a leader. I am also going to consider their policies and how realistically they sound to carry out.

	➢	For Clinton, I would ask her for full transparency and omission of guilt so we could start out on a clean slate.

	➢	For Trump, I would ask him to be a leader that we as Americans would be proud to have running our country.  Stop the disrespect and racism, stop the bullying. He needs to tone down the anger in the delivery of his message. Many of his messages are on point but many are not.

	➢	Please do all you can to bring our country together. It seems we are more divided than ever. Do what you think is right and not necessarily what a bunch of advisers are telling you to do. Understand that this is the most important position in the world. Do what is right for the majority of people. Follow the leadership of our founding fathers, who were truly dedicated to doing what is right.

	➢	Dear presidential candidates, What America needs is someone who is accepting of ALL Americans and dedicated to making ALL American lives better.  This means helping the minorities, the lower classes, the children who cannot yet vote, the people who cannot afford to help pay for your campaigns, and even the people who voted against you.  America cannot survive if just one type of person is catered to.  Be those the rich people, the majority, the politicians, the oil companies, or the executives.  None of these people, by themselves, can help America survive.  Can you HONESTLY say that you are working for all Americans despite any differences in class, color, religion, or opinion?  If not, then you are not fit to serve as the leader of ALL of America.

	➢	Dear Candidate, my vote will be determined by how honest I feel you are. Please remember you are to become our leader and we need to rely on you. No offense to the 3rd party guy because he doesn't stand a chance so I'll just focus on Donald and Hillary. Hillary, you are a legit criminal and I have no clue how you are still not behind bars. Your pockets run deep with favors and monies owed and it'll interesting to see how you pay those off because I'm still boggled as to how you got so far. Speaking as a woman you definitely aren't getting the fem power from me. You wouldn't be able to ever get my vote because I don't think you could ever have a clear conscience. Donald, you are a very blunt man. But you've done your research or at least paid someone to do it because you know exactly how to create such a powerful image or both positivity and negativity but you do it all on your own dime which is great, thanks for that. You have a lot of extreme ideas that provoke a lot in people. I love to discuss the immigration one because I actually grew up in a border town close to the AZ/Mexican border and I do have to admit it's scary as a youth running into an illegal in the desert, especially when you don't know any Spanish. I'd love to give you some firsthand insight of that if you're interested. I'd like to let you know that you scare me as well. You do a lot of bold and run around talking and lack compassion, at least I've never seen any on any regard. Even though you are a forceful man, you've been supporting yourself on your own dime and I do enjoy your political incorrectness and putting politicians in their place so you will definitely get my vote versus Hillary.

	➢	I would tell them to treat the American people and others around the world seriously and sensibly.  I would ask them to be honest, trusting and not to put personal gain and selfishness before others. In addition, I would advise to think of the consequences of their actions before speaking, emailing, documenting or devising policies that will impact the lives of all of us in this great nation.

	➢	I would ask Mr. Trump that since I have not made up my mind on who to vote for could he please give me a concrete plan on what he plans on doing with the over spending of the government such as welfare and the military. I would want to know what his plans are for Obama Care and the environment. I would ask Ms. Clinton what she also plans on doing with Obama Care and the environment. I would be interested in knowing if she believes in drug testing people that get welfare and section 8 housing and other types of entitlement programs.

	➢	I would say "Dear Presidential candidates, this is how I will be voting and how you can earn my vote. I am not interested in fluff or filler in your pitches. I want the straight facts delivered to me when I ask my questions. When I ask you what you stand for I expect a full answer and not a roundabout answer that doesn't really answer my question. I expect you to tell the truth and not lie to me just to earn my vote. I expect that you focus on earning my vote by appealing to the values I stand for. If you cannot appeal to the values of quality human life, no abortion, and helping our country vs. helping others first, then you can earn my vote. I will be making up my mind based on which candidate fits those requirements the best."

	➢	I would like to write a note and ask a candidate how they would benefit me personally by earning my vote. Would they represent my best interests or the interests of their pocketbook?
	o	[What would you need to hear as a response to this question in order to feel confident in a candidate?] I would like to hear from the candidate that they would not bow to political pressure that would benefit them financially. That they would waive every decision they make with the idea of greater good.


	➢	I would tell them both that I am ashamed of them and their views and cannot in good conscience vote for either one of them.

	➢	I am writing to ask regarding your views specifically related to balancing the budget. How will you do this? What are your thought for better economic means to improve to school system? What about homeland security?

	➢	How will you provide a climate in which both parties can work together EFFECTIVELY?

	➢	Dear Presidential Candidates: I will be voting for one of you this November and there are several issues that are on the forefront of this election.  For me the most important issue is our economy and our national debt.  I need to know that you have a plan to not only stabilize but also grow our economy.  I also want to know how you are going to begin reducing our national debt.

	➢	Dear Candidate, I think both of you should focus on what is wrong with our country and try to stay out of the politics of other countries.  We are sending money and there are homeless and starving citizens (including veterans - which is a total disgrace).

	➢	Dear Candidates, I'm having a hard time trying to find the right person to choose for president.  It's okay to have a difference of opinion, because that's what differentiates the parties.  But it's a hard pill to swallow when you are given to candidates that genuinely seem to hate each other.  I always admire when I see past presidents, from both parties, converge together for a cause, and they warmly greet each other.  But it seems those days are gone.  Contentiousness is not attractive on anyone.  Please make it easier for not just me to vote, but for all of us.

	➢	The best way to earn my vote is by showing me honesty. I would tell them not to bother making promises they have no intention of keeping.

	➢	Dear Candidates, it is almost that time again. Americans will have chosen by now who in their mind will be our future leader. Now, with that being said I would like for you to know that while I whole heartedly feel neither of you are anyone I would choose or even want to lead our country I have to make a decision. I am tired of hearing the same old promises presidents before you and the presidents before them and the presidents before them have blindly to America and will continue to do so because you feel that will be enough. But let me tell you something, it won’t be swaying me any further. Instead I ask you what is it that you actually are willing to do? What sort of America is it you want to build?

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	Please do not legalize gay marriage, marijuana, or transgender bathroom laws. Gay people are not the same as everyone else and should have less rights if anything. They commit a crime against nature and against society. From a societal productivity standpoint, they are a waste. When was the last time you saw a successful businessman, scientist, or athlete that was gay? (Male)

	➢	Dear Sir or Madam, if you would like to earn my vote for your presidential election then you will have to change your positions on nearly everything you stand for. Be wholly pro-woman (safe abortions when medically necessary, counseling and financial aid when not) and concerned for the general welfare of the entire population not just the richest. How about some real healthcare options so cancer patients can live a semblance of a normal life instead of being up to their eyebrows in debt? If you want my vote, then you also need to be sincerely concerned about religious prejudice in this country. 
	➢	Signed, Concerned American Citizen. (Female)

	➢	Neither of the two current candidates deserve the office one is a hate filled race monger and the other is one of the most corrupt individuals to run for office in the history of this country. In my letter would state that the open and honest truth about all aspects of the current investigation need to be out in the public and that the foreign donations that are currently being funneled in to the organization in exchange for favors needs to stop com0letly with laws put.in place so that they are no longer able to accept foreign donations for any reason. (Male)

	➢	I would tell the candidates this year that one of the surest ways to lose my vote is to keep telling me what they think I want to hear, instead of what I know to be true.  For the democratic candidate, I would tell them there is absolutely no chance that they would get my vote, no matter what they say.  An often cited quote, attributed to many different individuals, goes something like this, "If you are not a liberal at 25, you have no heart.  If you are not a conservative at 35, you have no brain."  This fits me exceptionally well.  But that is not to say I will blindly vote conservative.  To the republican candidate (presumably Trump), I would say that he needs to be careful what he says and how he is portrayed in the media.  This election will be won or lost less by facts and more by public opinion.  I would be just fine casting my vote for a third-party candidate. (Male)

	➢	For Hillary Clinton, I would tell her there's basically nothing she can do to earn my vote. I am sick of the scandals that follow her and her family. I would really rather have Bill for another term than her because I find truly disgusting her apparent entitlement to the "throne." I am disgusted in particular by her advocacy of "women's rights," which I disagree with morally, but which I also find hypocritical in her since she has allied herself with Bill as he victimized women. I find her actions in the Benghazi matter horrible. For Donald Trump, who I am almost certainly going to vote for, though I do have reservations (ie he seems tyrannical), I would like to see him follow through on putting an end to illegal immigration (not singling out banning Muslims or a religious group though--that sets a bad precedent). I'd like to see no foreign wars and empire building. In his case, I would really be comforted and made comfortable to vote for him knowing that he would refrain from all of the executive actions and orders that Obama (in a precedent starting with Bush) isn't afraid to use.  Those are an overreach of executive authority. I'd also like to see more fiscal responsibility. And for him to stop putting his foot in his mouth! (Female)

	➢	I generally am more interested in the most common issues that are debated: education, jobs, economy, and all other domestic and international affairs. The candidate can earn my vote if he or she falls into line or has similar thoughts as myself. This will not be only an issues-based election, though. I will see how he or she handles pressures or stressors, etc. (Male)
	o	[What do you mean by fall in line?] Meaning that if we have similar beliefs, then the candidate could potentially secure my vote.

	➢	The most important thing to me for a presidential candidate is not your views, but it is your character. I am ready for a politician who will be quick to admit mistakes and be honest with the public. I'm quite tired of seeing poor character in politicians. (Male)

	➢	Dear Presidential Candidates, you have all had several pretty scandalous events take place and you're not even in office yet. How am I supposed to be able to trust you when all I have to go off of is your past history? I really need some answers and so does the rest of America. You guys may say you stand on a certain side of an issue, but how do I know that you're not going to flip flop once you're elected? Prove yourselves. (Female)

	➢	Dear candidates, there are many different things that determine why someone votes, but for me, it is honestly. I watch the debates and I read about them. It is not hard to tell what is a lie. I want a president that is going to be completely honest. So, stop throwing mud and run the best campaign that you can. (Female)

	➢	Dear candidate, think about where you went to school. Think about all of your teachers and the help you received throughout your schooling. Now imagine being in crippling debt just trying to better yourself and your standing. Imagine watching your children strive to succeed with a mountain constantly following them. Would you want to sit back and watch that? I would hope not. Many families in the US has watched this and those are just the ones who were fortunate enough to be able to go to college. The minds of Americas tomorrow is in those classrooms. I write to try to convince you to better education for all of us. Sincerely, Jessica (Female)

	➢	I don't care for Trump with his arrogance and scorn, and Hillary is frigid, pricking like a thorn; Sanders seems best, but he's joined Hillary's crew; perhaps Jill Stein will see us through. Liberalism too weak, conservativism too strong - moderation is what's needed, been needed all along. (Male)

	➢	I would tell a presidential candidate that I am looking for someone with strong morals and an unwavering confidence. I want the future president to demonstrate humility as well as knowing what they stand for. I am looking for someone who stands up for the voiceless and vulnerable. I want my candidate to have a true desire to see America's economy thrive. I also want a candidate who is strongly invested in the safety of our country. I believe this candidate would need to demonstrate an upright character and ability to work with other nations. The most important trait I want a candidate to have is honesty. (Female)

	➢	I plan on voting for the candidate who most closely resembles my Christian values. My family is Christ-focused. I believe in the values outlined for me in the Bible, and I believe in what is promised to me through a life devoted to following Christ. (Female)

	➢	I am honestly not sure what I would say to Hilary. I just know that for her to have any chance at earning my vote she would have to convince me that she is not as corrupt as I believe her to be. And that is a tall order to Trump I would say something along the lines that "You already have my vote assuming that you don't mess it up. Occasionally you take things too far or you don't act professional I am all for some confidence and bravado, but there is a line and you like to flirt with that line." (Male)

	➢	I think I would ask both Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump the same question. "You both claim to be Christian, so why do you both seem to have a low commitment to the ultimate authority of scripture, and why does it seem you have little understanding and knowledge of biblical doctrine." The candidate who answered this question honestly and began to work on these two things would most likely earn my vote. (Male)

	➢	I would tell each Presidential candidate that I will be deciding who to vote for based on the individual's character and trustworthiness, in addition to their assurance that they will do their best to defend the civil liberties and livelihoods of Americans at home and pursue sensible foreign policy abroad. I would let them know that I also consider previous political experience, as well as their demonstrated track record, in making my decision. (Male)

	➢	All we want is the truth (Male)

Evangelical Women

	➢	I would communicate the importance to me of supporting a family friendly platform and their personal and postilions on relevant issues facing the nation and my family personally will all contribute to my decision making process

	➢	I would tell them that there are a few things that are very important to me in the coming election. Educational policy pertaining to assessment and funding is extremely important to me, and I want to know what your stance is on the current policies. How would you change them?

	➢	Also, healthcare is important. I have a large family and the Affordable Healthcare Act has been anything but affordable. I currently have 25%of my income going to healthcare premiums, and that doesn't take into account the copays. Are insurance companies going to be regulated at all? Generally, I am not in favor of government regulation of businesses, but it seems to be getting out of hand.

	➢	I am curious about your thoughts on domestic travel as well. Are you railway friendly, meaning will you encourage and facilitate the growth of rain transportation?

	➢	I would ask them to please stay on topic of policies and their beliefs instead of all the hate speech. I'd like to know how they feel about the major issues like...military, employment, healthcare, and abortion.

	➢	I would say I need someone who has EVERYONEs best interest at hand.  Not just the rich or the whites. I need a true leader.  Someone who is going to cut spending.  Help the middle class.  Be proactive on terrorism.  Stop taking money and funding from plan parenthood and school lunches, and guarantee social security for everyone.  Help with the homeless in our country.

	➢	I would like to tell them to tell me what they intend to do for the country. I don't want them to tell me what their opponent does, will do or has done. When they tell what they will do for the country, I would like them to be honest about it, don't just make a bunch of ridiculous promises just to get elected.

	➢	Hillary, you never should have taken the money from the special interests.  We can never trust you now.  Don, you are a nut.  I may or may not vote for you.  What are you going to do for the lost, middle class, who is now lower class?  more like working class.  What are you going to do for the working class?  We need a better minimum wage, please!

	➢	Dear Presidential Candidates, this is anonymous so I will tell you up front; neither of you whether republican or democrat are my first choice, or even second choice, so from the beginning of your candidacy, I have very mixed feelings. Neither of you seem to have the moral, ethical, or spiritual fiber that I would hope for in a president. While you both may have a certain amount of life and legal experience, neither one of you has the clear outward "presidential persona" that seems to be helpful to be a world leader. Neither one of you have my confidence that you will make the best decisions for our country philosophically, regarding government or military situations. Neither of you speak of your own personal faith or any personal struggles and how you have dealt with them morally or spiritually. You both seem to lack humility and contrition whenever you have screwed up. You may have said you were sorry or apologized but the sincerity was little more than what you get when two 8yr olds in a school yard scuffled are forced to shake hands and " say you're sorry". I just don't know what to think. I could say Hillary, you have had the experience of being in the white house already, but your husband was a disgrace to the presidency and you would have done well to divorce him and separate yourself from him, but instead, you stood by him, only to be able to emotionally blackmailing him into getting his cronies to eventually support your campaign, if not flat out BUY your campaign. I would have way more respect for you if you had left him and then your platform would be significant as the first woman presidential candidate, but since you didn't, I see a vote for you as a continuation of the presidency of Bill Clinton, Liar, Adulterer and public disgrace to the White House, the Office of the presidency of the USA and to our country and everything it stands for. To you Donald Trump, I know your "comb over " is your trademark, but it looks ridiculous and is not the " presidential look" I would hope for in someone who lacks actual political experience but who now seems to really want to win the presidential race. So now I have to explain, when you first announced your name was going in the hat for this race, we (I) thought it was a joke. We figured you had enough expendable money to get in and "stir the pot" like Russ Perot did several years ago and get the other candidates talking about the issues etc. We never really believed you were serious...I mean who wears their hair like a middle aged has been used car salesman? We could say well you have a lot of business experience, because of your successful business status, but wait.... how many times have you filed bankruptcy? You may call it business strategy, but to file ch 13 so many times for the same business no less, is shameful to me. Then there's the issue of marriage, yes you believe in it (at least 4 times) but you also seem to believe in divorce equally or almost equally as much (if statistics are to be trusted, you will probably divorce wife #3 or is it #4 as well. Do you have a moral compass? If not, when and how will you get one? Or will you hire a committee and borrow theirs? It would be nice to know more about these candidates than what we see on front of newspapers, trash magazines, and opponents campaign ads. It would be nice to know that they are made of something real and see some honesty in their words, not propaganda for or propaganda against various "hot topics" I will be prayerfully seeking insight as to which of you will be the "lesser of two evils" and least likely to: disgrace our country or bring us to social, financial, and political ruin as a world power.


	➢	Ms. Clinton, I would like to know the truth about your dealings with these emails?? What are your expectations on becoming the first women president?? Are you going to use that to your benefit or the country's? How will Bill be introduced as former President or first husband.

	➢	I've already made up my mind and it's been made up ever since Donald Trump announced he'd be running for president. we don't need any more career politicians in Washington, we need someone who can run the government as a business.

	➢	I would ask that they be honest, consistent in their ideals, have strong moral character and a passion for the betterment of our country.  I would ask them to throw any agenda for personal gain out the window and to lay their ego at the door.

	➢	Hi Hillary, there is nothing you can do to earn my vote, except perhaps stand tall and admit that the video did not cause the deaths of our ambassador and soldiers. Admit how much money you have accepted from evil people as "donations." Then quit and go home and get a real job. Maybe I'll think about voting for you then. Hey Donald Trump, I don't care for your style and innuendos. However, you have my vote because as an 100% INDEPENDENT voter (no party registered) you are the only other realistic option.

	➢	Well, since it is pretty much down to Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, I don't know what to say. I don't want to vote for either! Dear candidates, right now, neither one of you stand for the same things I do and you do not seem like people I want to run my country. I don't feel like I can trust you. It can be hard to trust any politician these days, but there are definitely others I trust more. I am tired of the lying from you, Hillary. Donald, I can't stand your views on immigration or on women. You seem like a jerk. I will vote for you, Donald, but I would feel much better if I felt like you had the country's best interest at heart instead of just wanting to hear yourself talk. If you displayed any humility, that would go a long way. Please work on that!

	➢	Please stick to the important stuff, stop the negative ads.  Just tell us what you believe and what you want to change and leave the other candidate out of it.

	➢	If I could write a short note to the candidates, I would say that I have not yet made up my mind who I'm going to vote for yet.  However, more than a stance on any one issue, I am looking for a person of integrity. Someone who would make a good leader without feeling the need to belittle or bully others to make themselves look better. I am also looking for someone that can work TOGETHER with people with differing viewpoints. If you can show me how you can or will do that, then you have my vote.

	➢	Dear Candidate: While all elections are important, this election is even more important than most as it appears the next president will most likely nominate up to three candidates for Supreme Court Justice.  Also, as we see the rise in ISIS and terror both home and abroad, continued levels of underemployment or unemployment, and a porous border and continued illegal immigration, I want a president who is not afraid to make the tough decisions.  I want a president who will address these issues while balancing the budget and begin the slow process of decreasing our national debt.  I want my children to have a country they will be proud to inherit and lead in the future.  These times require not being popular but being strong and moral in leadership.  These are the characteristics that I will watch for in determining who I will vote for in November.

	➢	I would ask that as you continue your campaign, you keep to the current politics and run a "clean campaign". I think mudslinging says a lot more about the person doing the slinging than the opponent. I also feel very strongly that the gap between the richest and poorest person is becoming more substantial. I would like to know how you're going to improve upon that and how you're going to help the working poor.  A plan to help those who tend to fall between the cracks, those who aren't poor enough to get any of the help they desperately need while having those more fortunate pay more would get my vote.

	➢	Mr. Trump, most of what I've heard of from you is just terrible racist comments about the people in America as well as the Jewish population.  You are also anti-Israel, which being pro- Israel is very important to me.  I don't think we need a dictator for a president. you suck and your fired!!!! Mrs. Clinton, I haven't heard much from you.  Instead of voting for the TV whore, you are what's left. I guess you could say I'm picking the lesser of 2 evils.  Some of the stuff you did in office I didn't really agree with.  I don't recall what they are right now. (due to my MS).


Will the candidate’s faith or religion play a role in who you decide to support? If yes, how much of a role?  Is it more important to you that the candidate is a person of faith, or is their specific religion important to you?  What makes you say that?  

Catholic Women

	➢	Religion isn't important to me. I am more concerned about what they will do for the country. I don’t think religion will have a big effect on that in politics

	➢	Considering I don't even know Trump or Hilary's religion the candidate's faith doesn't really play a role in who I support. As long as they are morally conscience people.

	➢	No, I don’t think religion will play a role in who I decide to vote for. It is more important to me that they act rationally and logically. They should have respected policies in place that make sense. I don’t judge people on their religion.

	➢	No, neither candidate has shown themselves to be a person of faith.  I would love someone who has a strong faith background and position of tolerance and acceptance of all people but we have not seen such a candidate in my lifetime.  I do my best to support the candidates that I feel will make the most choices that I can morally support and also support with reason.

	➢	No it doesn’t make a difference to me. There are many religions out there, And I don’t judge anyone on their particular faith

	➢	The candidate's religion would never decide my vote because that would go against what this country is founded one which is separation of church and state. I wouldn't want my religious views targeted against when trying to make a run for office. It is important that a candidate is a person of faith and it doesn't even have to be mine. I think the only faith I wouldn't tolerate would be RADICAL Islam because they don't really believe in that church and state division. Other then that any specific religion isn't that important to me because it shows they are committed to their own beliefs and I respect that as I would hope they would respect mine.

	➢	I do not think the particular faith of a candidate will dictate who I will vote for. It does not matter to me if a candidate is Jewish, Catholic, Protestant, etc.  I want an individual that possesses morals, values, consideration for others, trust, temperament, patience and a plan to uplift not denigrate the spirit and humanity of others. I believe that the candidate should practice a faith based religion because that is the basis for what I listed above but I do not believe that the candidate's faith should get in the way of the person doing their job. I think it should be a foundation for the principles and values that make up the person's character. I do not want radicalism that I see in many other countries dictating politics.

	➢	It does not matter what faith a candidate’s faith is as long as they believe in a higher power and are of moral character. I think a good president has to have and stand their morals and what they believe in no matter what.

	➢	The exact faith is not of uber importance to me; however, a candidate's faith can result in their own views being different from mine greatly. If for example, the candidate believes in abortion through their religion, then I will not support them. It plays a role only to the fact that it either hinders my values or gives them more strength and meaning as a Catholic myself. I am Catholic, but I do appreciate other religions, so I would not put much weight on religion specifically unless it interferes with my own beliefs. Then in that case it will play a high role because I stick to my values and nobody can change them. I believe in human life and not aborting children.

	➢	To a certain degree a candidate's faith with play a role in who I decide to support. As to how much a role is not real clear at this point. I look for a candidate whose actions speak for themselves, rather than their words. Too often we have candidate's that spout the correct faith/religious views, but then are very immoral in their professional/personal lives.

	➢	I don't particularly care about their religion. I just care about their views. Many times a person’s religion or faith can influence those views, but since neither candidate seems to have a strong faith, their views remain my main focus.

	➢	Religious preference is a factor, in addition to the whole picture. Specific religion and how they practice is of interest/note. I say this because I feel like it does play a role in decision making most likely. How could it not?

	➢	The candidate's religion will not play a role in my decision.  However, their faith will.  I believe the leader of our country should believe in a higher power other than themselves.  Our President will have to make some very important and hard decisions which will require them to have a moral and ethical conscience.  That conscience should be guided by God.

	➢	The faith of the candidates is not an issue for me, as long as they make decisions keeping religion out of it.

	➢	The religion that a candidate practices is not really important.  I'm concerned more with values, and I think religion and values go hand in hand.  I think being overly religious would distract what is right for everyone, but that doesn't mean a person can't hold up to a certain standard of values, which other people can look up.

	➢	My kind of religion is just being a good, honest, kind person with a large amount of integrity.

	➢	I don’t mind what religion they choose to want to believe in. It won’t make & break my decision for who I vote for.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	I haven't met a politician whose religious views were anywhere near mine but I prefer a candidate that is not Muslim and I would prefer one that is Jewish. (Male)

	➢	It is important to me that a president share my faith values. I'm reminded daily of what the Pilgrims must have felt like living under a King who wanted them to yield to his religion. (Female)

	➢	It is not so much about the candidate’s faith as they say what they believe but it is about how they act and present themselves are they following the teachings that they proclaim to believe in. It is not as important that they have the same or a similar faith to what I believe but that they act on moral standards that will allow them to fill the office of president with a straightforward understanding of what they believe and that they will act upon what they believe in order to create a better country for all that live here not just those that follow the same religion as them. (Male)

	➢	My faith will play a much larger role in which candidate I support, much more than the faith of any one candidate.  I understand that faith and/or religious preference is, in many cases, a private matter.  I also understand too that in representing a country that offers freedom of religion to its citizens that its leader may need to be seen as agnostic at best, atheistic at worst.  I tend to believe that the candidate I choose to support will be a religious person in some context, whether or not it will be on public display. (Male)

	➢	No, faith (at least Christian faith) doesn't necessarily play a strong role (at least when deciding between Christians and secular people). I'm looking for an effective and good leader, not a Christian. Often, the two roles don't align. Jimmy Carter was a Christian, and he was one of the worst presidents we ever had. I would also be very leery of voting for an evangelical in general, because I am sick and tired of the Republican party high jacking evangelicalism and making a mockery of it by their bad governing or stupidity. In terms of Christians though, even though I am evangelical, I would tend to consider a Catholic person more seriously than any other, secular or Christian, with the idea in mind that they might have some classical training in political philosophy (evangelicals usually don't.).
	➢	Also, I wouldn't want a Muslim or a Hindu in office. I can handle Jewish, Catholic or perhaps Christian, but if not those I'd rather have the person be secular, atheist or agnostic (as most are). I absolutely won't vote for a Mormon unless there are no better options because I don't want to legitimize what I consider a cult. (Female)

	➢	The candidate's faith or religion will not play a large role in who I decide to support. To me, there are other far important issues to be concerned with. What is important to me, though, is that the candidate not fall on either "extreme" side of the continuum. For example, I would want not elect an Atheist or a Bible-thumping, live-solely-by-the-text Christian. (Male)

	➢	A candidate’s faith does play some of a role in my selection but only a rather minor one. I would prefer someone with faith over someone without faith due to some factors that I believe faith gives a candidate. I am partial to a Christian candidate, but I'd rather have a Muslim candidate or someone of another faith than an atheist. However, I would say that the faith of a person doesn't matter to me if their actions don't seem to line up with their faith. I'd rather have a consistent atheist candidate than someone who claims to be a Christian and does things against their beliefs consistently. (Male)

	➢	This is a tough one. I am a Lutheran, but I believe that all religions have a pretty strong backbone when it comes to what is right and wrong and what and making moral decisions. I probably wouldn't want an atheist. I'm sure atheists are good people, but this country was founded on religion and I love the morals that come along with being a religious person. (Female)

	➢	It does not matter their religion, just as long as they do not try to change mine. I think that they should have some sort of faith, but everyone is different. I say this because I would not want to push my religion on someone, so why should it matter as long as they are not doing the same to me (Female)

	➢	A candidate’s religion will not play a role in who I support. I am accepting of anyone's religion, and will not judge them for they do not believe what I do. I believe that the candidate should have something they believe strongly in because that helps drive you to make change. If the candidate that is best for this country isn't a Baptist Christian then that is okay, the president shouldn't be making decisions based on their religious feeling anyways. The candidate should be making decisions that benefit the United States not just the people who worship in the same way! (Female)

	➢	I am only interested in the candidates and their faith insofar as I prefer Western religions simply because I want to avoid hearing the rest of society gripe and moan about "foreigners" being elected to the office. Religious or societal, I’m tired of arrogance in government. (Male)

	➢	A candidate's faith or religion plays somewhat of an important role in my decision. I don't feel the candidate necessarily has to have a faith or religion. However, I do feel that if they claim to follow one certain faith or religion, I want to know that they are committed to it and are not saying it to gain a certain group of voters. I just want a trueness in the candidates. (Female)

	➢	It is getting more and more difficult to openly proclaim my Christianity because of the way Christianity has been portrayed through the media. We are called hateful, ignorant, and unaccepting, based on the radical actions of individuals who act in the name of God. I would like my candidate to show Christian values, without showing hate or prejudice toward certain groups. I believe everybody should have access to the same human rights. The right to seek medical care, the right to have access to food, water, and shelter, the right to be treated with dignity, etc. I don't believe those rights should come at the cost of other groups of people losing their rights. I believe people should have the right to enter our country legally. I believe that those who are here illegally should be given a chance to stay here by going to the proper channels which are available to them to become a US citizen. Those who refuse to become legal in the proper manner should be deported. (Female)

	➢	A candidate’s faith is certainly important to me. Not just that they are a person of faith, but that they share the same basic faith as me. I myself am a Baptist. I don't find it necessary for a candidate to be a Baptist like me, but I do want the president to be Christian. Maybe this makes me greedy, but I want my country to be led by someone with whom I share beliefs. (Male)

	➢	It definitely did in the primaries for me, but at this point I feel it is biblically warranted and clear to say both Trump and Clinton are nominal Christians in nature and not truly elect. The specific religion is important to me because I want to vote for a candidate that represents my values accurately and someone who is a reformed protestant evangelical should generally reflect my views more than anyone else. (Male)

	➢	I don't think a candidate's faith or lack thereof plays much of a role at all in who I decide to support. For example, let's say that one candidate was a Protestant Christian, and the other was an atheist. I myself am a Protestant Christian. However, if I agreed more with the political stances of the candidate who happened to be atheist, and I thought they would be a better leader, I would vote for him or her over the candidate who shares my own faith. I don't see the President as needing to be an advocate for my religion. I believe that God is powerful enough that He does not need the President of the US to carry out His will on earth. The same logic extends to voting for candidates outside of my specific religion. I would sooner vote for a Muslim who I believed would be a good leader than vote for a Christian who I thought would be a poor leader. (Male)

	➢	One's faith really does not change my thinking too much. Though as I type this, I realize that I would not want like, a Muslim president. As long as a candidate held basic Christian values, I could listen to them. (Male)

Evangelical Women

	➢	I would have to say that I think it’s important that the candidate is a person of faith I don’t think he/she has to be of a specific religion but embracing spirituality as well as tolerance and respect of other faiths is desirable I think faith grounds a human being especially when things spin out of control it’s a safe haven in time of cirri’s

	➢	Their faith is more important to me. Any person can be religious. Religion can be taken on and off, like a pair of socks. Faith is a part of who you are and shapes your integrity. I don't have to agree with everything that the candidates believe in, but I would like a candidate who has an internal compass that is faith driven.

	➢	Yes, unfortunately I'm not sure either of them are telling the truth about their faith. It is very important to have a person of faith because they should have a better moral code and standards. Any Christian faith would do, but of course I would prefer a spirt-filled charismatic or born again person.

	➢	No not necessarily.  I’m a Christian.  Yea it would be great if they are also but not a deal breaker.  I accept people for who they are.

	➢	I would like a candidate to be a Christian, I don't think it's absolutely necessary, but definitely helpful. A lot of American's claim to be Christian but their lifestyles reflect otherwise. If a candidate claims Christianity then I would expect their lifestyle to be a reflection of that. Specific religion does matter to me, I would not vote for a Mormon, a Muslim, an atheist, etc.

	➢	No. It's separate to me.  I know full well that these two have no faith.  They may as well NOT pretend.  Pretending is offensive.  They are secular and I can deal with that.  I feel more comfortable with a secular president.  I don't need a Mormon or Catholic or...whatever...imposing their beliefs on me.  I frankly don't care what they believe.

	➢	Before it came down to the currently remaining 2 candidates, I would say yes, religion matters or faith if you prefer that word. Now it seems pretty clear to me that neither really has any faith or religion or spiritual life whatsoever. I personally think that they BOTH give the impression that they are lost souls, out for money, power, prestige, etc. I think that a person of faith has a potential to make a better president if they are Christian or Jewish but not other faiths like Islam, because of the teachings that specifically say not Muslims are "infidels" and should be killed if they are not willing to follow Islam. Our country was founded upon a desire for religious freedom, but during a time where the current culture was predominantly Judeo-Christian and it was agreed that separation of church and state would insure religious freedom regardless of the religion of the president or governor or any political office (at least on paper). In Islam however, their belief that Islam is the ONLY acceptable religion, it is plausible that an Islamic president could garner enough support from Islamic community, to abolish separation of church and state. We need only look to the Middle East where Islam is the state religion officially making it either illegal to be Christian or financially impossible to be Christian. So, if a Muslim or Muslim sympathetic candidate were running for office, I could not vote for them.

	➢	To me religion and faith are selling points on the winner. I personally believe that we, were greatly miss lead by our current office.

	➢	I prefer a Christian or any religion that isn't Muslim, being a non-Muslim is a pretty big deal to me. I prefer a person of faith and I am pretty sure Donald Trump is.

	➢	I see faith and religion as two very different things.  Faith, to me, is a personal relationship with God.  Religion is an organized set of rules to practice worship. That said, it is not important to me that the candidates are "religious" but I would like for them to have faith in God.  It's not a bad thing to have a president that makes decisions on what he thought Jesus might do.

	➢	I wish faith or religion would play a role in this presidential election. But due to the nature of the two unappealing candidates, I am going to vote for the one who has lied the least and killed the fewest people. I did like Ted Cruz, Rand Paul and Dr. Ben Carson due to their Christian principles, but of course, none of them are available. I do think that although Trump is not a Christian or even ethical person, I believe he will take better care of the US than the guy in there now who hates my white skin and Christianity, and far better care than the lying woman who continues to skate through lies with immeasurable corruption. Trump at least claims to be a Christian, not sure what the Clinton stance is but whatever it is, I'll bet you a dollar it's a total lie. She reminds me of the chronic liar on SNL played by John Lovitz a few years back.

	➢	As a Christian, I would love to know the next president was a believer as well. The problem I have is that the way our country has gone means that that person probably would not be elected by the majority of voters. I would definitely trust someone more if they proved their values and that they were looking out for the best interest of the country.

	➢	I would definitely vote a real Christian over a fake or one who has no faith.  I want to see this country come back to morals and faith and a non-Christian will not do that for us.

	➢	The candidates' specific religion or faith is less important to me (when considering who to vote for), than the qualities listed in the previous question.

	➢	Religion and faith definitely played a role in who I voted for in the primary and will influence my vote in November 2016.  While only God can judge the heart of the candidate, I would prefer the candidate demonstrate that they are of the Christian faith.  This is important because of the nomination of Supreme Court justices.  I want our country to be led by a candidate whose personal relationship with Jesus will shape their actions and decisions.  However, if neither candidate stands out strongly in their faith, I will vote based on the candidate who appears to be the most conservative in their social beliefs.

	➢	I do think it's important that a person who leads our country has some faith. Whether it's the faith I choose to believe in is irrelevant to me. I would not necessarily be more likely to vote for one candidate over the other just because they professed to be religious, though. I think a lot of things can be said on the campaign trail and I don't believe those words are always true or followed through with. I believe actions speak louder than words. As in Donald Trump has not been very forthcoming with his business practices and Hillary Clinton has not been honest in her email dealings. I think both of their actions say more about them as people than the words they speak.

	➢	Faith is important to me because of Israel, if we don't keep them as allies then God would turn his back on us.  They are the chosen people.  I also believe that it is important that the president prays for our nation also.


What difference do you think it makes if the President is a person of faith?  What difference does it make if they are not?  

Catholic Women

	➢	It shouldn’t make a difference. When they are leading the country they are leading different faiths all at once. so they shouldn't let whatever faith they follow influence them as to be fair to everyone

	➢	If the president is a person of faith, I believe they have a conscience and have to answer to a higher power.

	➢	If they are not a person of faith, they may not be inclined to be moral and ethical in their decisions.

	➢	I think if a person is of faith they tend to be more conservative with their views. If they are not a person of faith, I think they make decisions more quickly without thinking them through.

	➢	As long as the President is a person who makes decisions for the good of ALL American's it does not matter to me what faith, if any, they follow.  As a Christian I would love to support people whose decisions agree with my faith (that everyone is equal and entitled to the same respect and love and we should always protect all stages of life) but I have yet to find a candidate who's running on a ticket that promotes faith whose view of faith coincides with mine.

	➢	It doesn’t make a difference at all

	➢	I think if the President does have a good basis for faith that it’s fantastic! It would hopefully bring them to a humbling attitude and make them question right from wrong judgment. Unfortunately, though this country is where money talks not faith. I really doubt one person would change that too. That would have to come from generations of small change or an apocalypse. If a president isn't a person of faith which I'm pretty sure is Donald Trump, that's the personality you get. The "hey what has faith done for me, I haven't seen any progress". You get a cold and blunt personality and a side of no compassion for the weak or sick.

	➢	I think that a president needs a value system to believe in that helps him or her make critical decisions. I believe that the president needs to be someone who is open minded but also has character traits that dignify the human spirit and strives to uphold it. If religion helps the president to epitomize these attributes, then I want one that practices his faith but does not preach it to me. If the president can possess these characteristics without a faith based system then more power and admiration to that candidate; however, I see one working hand in hand with the other.

	➢	It matters if the President is a person of faith as it shows that they have a moral upbring and belief that there is something that is greater than they are. I would want a President that is of faith as it closer to what I believe in and what I look for in a President.

	➢	I think that if the President is a person of faith, then they will be guided by their faith when making decisions and their values that they were taught through their religion. If they are not of faith, then they will make decisions solely based on logical outcomes. It would make a difference to me if they are not of faith because then I do not know whether they will apply the same care and weight to decisions that I do, such as abortion and ending lives. If they are not, then I cannot support them fully because I am passionate about life and taking care of our own.

	➢	I believe that faith shapes a person's character. But then I have seen many faithful people fall from grace. While faith shapes a person’s beliefs, it’s the integrity of the person's character that makes the person. I believe that you can have integrity and not be faithful, just as a person can be extremely faithful and have no integrity.

	➢	I believe most people of faith have strong convictions. Now whether this makes a good or bad influence depends of the specific faith, i.e. Christian, Muslim, Jewish etc. Since I am a Christian (Catholic), I would prefer to see a Christian President. I believe a Christian Presidents views would align more closely with my own.

	➢	If the president is a person of faith I feel that they are more receptive to areas of the country where perhaps the cultures and religious views dominate.

	➢	I believe faith instills a moral and ethical compass that is needed for the person representing our country domestically and to the world.  Being a person of faith keeps one accountable.

	➢	If they are not a person of faith their decisions may be made to accommodate a selfish agenda rather than what is best for the country.

	➢	I don't think it makes a difference if the President is a person of faith.  There are plenty of people in church on Sunday morning with plenty of sins behind them.  As long as you are a good person is fine with me.

	➢	I'm not sure if what you mean by person of faith.  If you mean that they faithfully practice their religion, then I think that is a good quality in anybody, not just a President.  If you mean a person of faith as a non-layperson, I'll state what I said before that I don't think it's a good idea for a President to be overzealous in their religious beliefs that it distracts doing the right thing for all people.

	➢	It would be nice if the candidate did have some form of faith to guide them. Everyone needs to have faith, faith in themselves being most important. [Hello, thank you for participating. What form of faith would you want to see or hear from the candidates that would reassure you?] I don't see religion as playing a role in politics. Being a good person with integrity is important. Being able to behave in honest and respectful ways is important. Having faith in yourself and what you stand for is important. Religion teaches a person that being this way is how you become the type of person God would want you to be, but your parents, if they are good parents, teach you that as well

	➢	Honestly I think it makes a huge difference to the majority of America what religion or even if a candidate is even religious at all. What kind of gets me is that for a nation that risked just about everything to separate ourselves from religious oppression we sure do weigh a lot against you if you are not the "right" religion. It’s just sad that everyone thinks that their religion is the "right" one and instead of being understanding they shut out others. The majority of Conservative politicians are portrayed as trustworthy or honorable when in reality those are the ones who end up being the most manipulative or greedy.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	If they are a "person of faith" it is probably a publicity stunt. They don't really have time to follow the teachings of whatever religion they are claiming. They are probably too arrogant to humble themselves before God. (Male)

	➢	It has been my experience that humanistic traits are detrimental to religious freedom - for the atheist, the Christian, the Muslim, and the Jew. No faith base, or claiming to have a religion free worldview, leads to anarchy. (Female)

	➢	I do not believe that the president needs to be a person of faith but they do need to act in the best interest of the country as a whole and not bow to the qants and demands of religious organizations regardless of if they have faith or not there is separation of church and state for a reason. (Male)

	➢	I think the faith of a leader is a very important thing, despite their ability to publicly express it.  I believe that must people without some sort of bedrock faith to guide their actions will, at some point, make a self-interested decision that may have been avoided by someone with a. Stronger faith.  This decision could have sweeping impacts to the country, in a negative way.  I tend to believe that good things tend to take care of themselves, so it is the negative things that need to be more closely considered. (Male)

	➢	I don't think it makes as big a difference as people tend to make of it. I think being a person of faith can help you be a better leader, make more moral decisions. But none of that matters if you don't have good training in governing or have training the wisdom to know the consequences of your actions. Matters aren't usually black and white. Sometimes you might make a decision that ends up hurting your end, moral goal rather than helping it because you didn't know how to govern. If a leader is not a person of faith, I do believe they are more likely to be corrupt. But the alternative still doesn't work any better if you have a leader making stupid decisions that hurt the "moral" goal in the long run. (Female)

	➢	It does not matter to me if the President is a person of faith or not. What does matter to me, however, is that the particular candidate not be extreme to one side or the other. I believe religion in politics is widely used as a means to get elected. (Male)

	➢	I think a belief in God can bring more humility and accountability to a person's conscience in the best case. If there are not a person of faith, then I believe there are some dangers of the Machiavellian type that concern me. However, I don't care if someone claims to be a person of faith as much as lives like a person of faith. Many politicians claim to be a person of faith but their life and voting record are not consistent with that expression. (Male)

	➢	As stated above, it's more about the morality of a person as opposed to being from a specific religion or not. I don't know a lot about atheists, but I imagine a lot of their conclusions are drawn on science. A majority of the world doesn't communicate in scientific terms and we need someone who is understanding. (Female)

	➢	I think that if they are a person of faith, then they will be more abiding and have trust in the people. I think that someone without faith may become a dictator. I mean I am sorry, but when you do not believe in anything, then you may not be able to see that others do have faith. (Female)

	➢	I believe that someone who has faith has passion. They have something that drives them to do better and to be the person they want to be. It doesn't matter if that person believes with their whole being that Poseidon is the ultimate ruler, that person holds that feeling in their heart and has passion to strive to meet the goals that person has in their life. (Female)

	➢	The faith of a candidate matters only because their belief systems influence their life choices and decisions. When serving a large number of people, with dissenting views, one must be as moderate in their choices as they are able. (Male)

	➢	The main difference I feel religious beliefs can play in an election is issues that deal with pro-life. This is an important issue to me so sometimes I do tend to gravitate towards someone who follows that mindset. I'm sure there are other ways in which religion comes into play. I am unaware of them.

	➢	If they are an individual with Christian values, that will give them the viewpoint needed to lead the nation in a manner that honors God. Someone who follows Christ should be less likely to be bribed with money or power. They hopefully will be more humble that a candidate who follows the world. (Female)

	➢	Not implying that a person without faith cannot be a moral person, but there is something about growing in faith that gives a person a certain moral compass. I do believe that God can and does bless people that follow Him. I would like for our nation to be among those people again. (Male)

	➢	I think it is important the President is a person of faith because in most religions and particularly in Christianity it places absolute truth and having an eternal perspective at the center of their life. If you don't believe in absolute truth or have an eternal perspective, there are endless corruptions and possibilities not only presidents but people in general can suffer from. (Male)

	➢	I don't think it makes much of a difference if the President is a person of faith. I think a person doesn't necessarily have to believe in any sort of faith to be a good person or a good leader. However, on a related note, I believe that, in terms of theology, a person simply being good is not enough for him or her to win salvation or God's favor. (Male)

	➢	I would feel much more comfortable and secure if a person of the faith was leading the country. (Male)

Evangelical Women

	➢	I often think that a person of faith is a moral spiritual compass and is in addition to or separate from organized religious practices I think a person of faith may be more stable or grounded and have a moral variable to decision making an anchor of sorts

	➢	I think that when our President is a person of faith, they are less likely to be self-serving and more likely to remember that they are in a position of servant leadership.

	➢	They would be following the same morals I do and would be accountable to God and their beliefs. I would always trust a Christian more then people with no faith. I believe a Christian President would better help my country.

	➢	I believe if they are then they will be more accepting of others.  And if u put god first all things u set out to do will have him involved.  And u treat people better.  And have morals.

	➢	If a president is a person of faith, they are going to trust in God. They will bring God back into this nation and it would make our country a lot better off. Our country started going downhill when we turned our back on God and took him out of everything. The state of our country is the way it is because our presidents have not been men of faith, even if they claim they are.

	➢	I'm 44 years old.  I can't remember a President espousing his faith in a believable way, so I have no frame of reference.  It does not make a difference to me.  His job is to follow the democratic will of the people as far as I am concerned.  If his faith helps him to do that, great.

	➢	I think I partially answered this question above, but most of the time I think I feel better if the president is a person of faith. I know they have a moral compass that way, even if it differed from mine. I can feel like they are humble enough to pray and seek counsel from G-d, rather than popular opinion polls or committed and focus groups.

	➢	If they are a person of faith, they should show it for most to the country. Prayer and practicing beliefs that are religious are a selling point.

	➢	To me a person of faith has values and morals. He shouldn't be dishonest and should be caring of the public.

	➢	To me a candidate who believes in and has faith in God acknowledges that he is flawed as a human, it also speaks to his moral character. I think it makes him or her easier to relate to, at least for me.

	➢	It makes a tremendous person if the President is a person of faith because of ethics and truthfulness. It made my heart swell with love and pride when Bush (who I didn't care too much for but at least he was Christian) and Reagan would talk about God in their speeches. Right now it can't even be a favor as we have two dishonest individuals vying for top post in this nation. All I can do is pick the one who lies the least and has caused fewer deaths’ That's Trump.

	➢	While I would love to have a person of faith in the White House, I understand that it may not happen. My big criteria is that they do what is right and look out for families and small businesses. I don't want to see them catering to the 1% or to their biggest contribution donors. They need to be able to see what is important in the big picture. We need to work on education, veterans, the poor, job creation, and things like that that make American the best place to live.

	➢	Without faith, decisions that are made are purely off of what that person thinks, no praying about it or conscience about it

	➢	If the person is a person of faith, then I can know some things for sure about them - some of their firmly held beliefs - that they may not speak about publicly.

	➢	I think it makes all the difference in the world! If you are a true born-again/evangelical Christian, your entire life is led and directed by the Word of God.  This will shape how you view money, budgets, defense, social issues, moral issues, etc.  This candidate will understand they are not just part of history but part of God's story of redemption and salvation.  If a candidate is not a person of faith, then you have no clue as to the direction of his or her moral compass.

	➢	I believe that a Persistent who lacks faith will not guard the American family the way a President of faith would. We live in tough times that are rapidly changing and the changes do not always need to be supported by our federal government. I think much of that should be left to the states as some tend to be more conservative than others. I also think that a President who walks in faith is also better equipped emotionally.

	➢	The very big one is how they feel about Israel. I'm not to hip on someone not of faith but if they are pro-Israel then that is the main thing.


How important is it for a President to be a moral leader? What would a moral leader do or not do that would be important to you?  

Catholic Women

	➢	I think morality is very important.  the more moral they are; I think the better decisions they will make for the country instead of themselves

	➢	Very important that they are moral. We as Americans live in the greatest nation.  We have a solid system (government) in place we do not need to falter and weaken and become corrupt as many other countries.

	➢	I think it is very important for a President to be a moral leader. This country's moral compass seems to have been thrown out the window by a lot of people. A moral leader would be more conservative and be more respectful of unborn fetus’s existences. A moral leader would probably be in favor of raising the minimum wages so those families can succeed.


	➢	I feel that it is extremely important the President makes moral choices.  These are, again, choices that support the rights and dignity of all life.  A moral leader would make sure that they are doing everything they can to protect their people.  Neither of our leading candidates have done anything to make me think they are even remotely moral people.

	➢	Very important. They have to be a moral leader. They are leading our country. They need to live their lives respectively

	➢	It's extremely important for the president to be a moral leader. I'd hope that by the time they reached their spot in office that they won't have a lot of debts owed to under the table politicians. I think being an extremely moral leader goes hand in hand with being a person of faith and if you lack faith you lack a certain amount of morals. For me a moral leader would listen to the people's complaints and even if they were conflicting they would have the patience and answers to defend their views and try to get the opposing on their side. A moral leader would not dismiss views just because they are disagreeing with their own.

	➢	I think that the president needs to honor and uphold human values and if being a moral leader achieves those goals, then that is want I desire. I don't have to agree with all that the moral leader professes but I would want the candidate to have set of moral principles to guide by. I would want a leader that respects the people of our nation with pride and value. I would also want a leader to respect the integrity of life outside of country too.

	➢	A President needs to be moral as if they are not then they would be only looking out for themselves and not for the country and the country was founded on "in God we trust" by our fore fathers and we should stay true to that saying as it has worked well for over a hundred years.

	➢	I believe greatly in morality. Hence, if they are not a moral leader, then I cannot vote for them at all. Someone who does not have morality is someone who thinks they can do anything even playing god. Someone who is moral will respect values and life and the country they govern over. A moral leader would watch over the country and make decisions based on the citizens needs and beliefs. They would not just make decisions on a whim that would cause more terrorism like Obama. They would focus their attention on the right things and not all of the fluff in the bills they sign and they would read everything to ensure that there is no corruption in the House or Senate.

	➢	One of the most important qualifications of a United States President is that he is a moral leader. Other countries look to the United States as a moral compass, so to speak. I would want a President to have the qualities of moral leadership, because I don't want to be embarrassed by having a President who is morally bankrupt in their personal life, running my country.

	➢	I think it is very important for a President to be a moral leader. The whole country looks to this person for guidance and help. If a President says something is ok, most people will blindly believe it. A moral leader needs to protect the safety and rights of those people who follow him/her.

	➢	A moral leader is important so not to embarrass the country (I.e. Monica L.)

	➢	The President should be a moral leader.  A moral leader would make decisions based on the well-being of our country.  He/she would not be involved in questionable decisions or do anything overtly offensive to others.  A leader with a positive moral compass has developed a strong character which is needed to represent our country.

	➢	I think it is important to be a moral leader.  The leader of our country should make decisions by what is right, not popular.

	➢	I think that it's important that the President is a moral leader.  I think that parents should be good moral leaders. And a President is sort of like a parent.  I tend to think that anybody who is in a high profile profession should hold up to a certain moral standard.  Most average joes have to.  Some people have clauses in their work contracts, take pro athletes.  If it’s good enough for them, it should be a given for a President.  Morality to me is more of inspiring people to do the right thing, even if religion isn't involved.

	➢	Morality is very important to me. It keeps a person steady in their beliefs I think. Doesn't allow a person to be swayed as much as someone who can be lead every which way.

	➢	I would say that it is at the top of my list as far as important attributes and traits I expect in someone I choose to be my president. The president has a hard job to do and it is important that he or she will make the kind of decisions that are truly in the best interest of our people and our nation.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	Morals are so conflicted in the US that it is best for the leader to take a middle of the road stance and hope for the best. A leader trying to force morals upon US citizens won't do much. (Male)

	➢	I think the President absolutely must be a moral leader. We have a voice as a nation through our congress that moves to get the details done. The president must set the moral standard; in fact, I believe he/she does whether they wish to or not. The morals of a leader set the tone for what is acceptable. Christian morals are important to me as an individual and I would prefer a president who also sets the standard with Christian morals. (Female)

	➢	It is very important for a leader to be moral. A moral leader would look at all in this country and try to steer this country and people in the right direction that is for all the people not just those select groups that have the money and power. (Male)

	➢	Morality is an extremely important trait to be sought after in a leader.  This gives one a high-ground to stand upon when making difficult decisions that could be construed in any number of ways.  I tend to think that the moral solution to a problem is the most obvious one, but sometimes it is not the chosen solution.  To have the moral high-ground enables the leader to frame the decision in a way that even opponents can understand the action that is being undertaken. (Male)

	➢	It is very important for president to be a moral leader. By moral, I would interpret that as adhering to a Christian ethic or a similar ethic. A leader like that would favor limited government (churches/individuals are supposed to be the providers of what the welfare system currently does), fiscal responsibility (so as not to enslave ourselves to debt), no abortion rights, no unnecessary foreign wars (can lead to murder of innocents just as bad as abortion), etc.... (Female)

	➢	I think it is somewhat important for a President to be a moral leader. Behaving or going through with actions that are predominantly or widely acceptable should be carried out, while those behaviors or actions predominantly deemed "wrong" should not occur. I say somewhat important because there is ambiguity in what should be considered "good" or "bad" actions or behaviors. (Male)

	➢	I think it is very important for the president to be a person of integrity if he or she is to lead well. A moral leader should be one whose words and actions correspond with one another. (Male)

	➢	This is incredible important and it is what I focused on above. The biggest thing that a moral leader would do is be a genuinely good person. They would connect with the general public. They would gain respect without demanding it and they would be loved by many. A strong moral leader is someone that can be easily followed and trusted. (Female)

	➢	I think that a moral leader is a must. Like I said before I want someone that is going to be 100% honest with me and the people of this great nation. I think that a moral leader would accept all people as they are while taking care of this country to try to make it prosper. If they are not honest, then how would you know what you are getting. To me, honesty and morality go hand in hand. (Female)

	➢	I think the biggest thing morally a President should do is stay true to their word. I know having the Democrats and Republicans not agreeing makes it difficult to get anything done, but the President should never stop fighting for what they believe in and what they believe would help this country. (Female)

	➢	A moral leader needs to uphold the virtue of American society, to hold the country together, and not segment us via religious beliefs or Godawful politically- correct bellyaching about equality for EVERY conceivable demographic in the nation. (Male)

	➢	Being a moral leader is extremely important to me when it comes to a presidential candidate. If you do not trust the president, you will not feel safe. I think when it comes to morals and presidential candidates we don't have to agree on all of them but there are some foundational ones that are important. Honesty is number one. Also, working towards the good of the nation as a whole. This means matters of thriving economically and safety. (Female)

	➢	A moral President will make decisions based on what is best for the nation, and not what is best for their own personal gain, or for the gain of their own political party. (Female)

	➢	I think our president being our moral leader is his or her most important position. We rely on this person to make potentially history altering decisions. These decisions aren't always black and white. They affect people’s lives both for the better and the worse. It’s not simply about looking at numbers and making a decision. There is so so much more to it. (Male)

	➢	Very important, I firmly believe Hollywood, social media, and the president lead the way in almost all secular social changes, and if the president is not leading in the correct moral direction the rest of the country will typically follow and that could be disastrous. A moral leader will stand up for what is right despite whether the greater population agrees with him or not. Not in a tyrannical way, but in an authoritatively loving way. (Male)

	➢	I would say that it is important that a President is a moral leader. I think that a leader's moral fortitude has a direct impact on his or her trustworthiness. A moral leader would be less likely to participate in corrupt activities. A moral leader would also be more likely to pursue policies that benefit mankind as a whole, rather than seek his or her own political gain. (Male)

	➢	It's 50/50 really. Everyone should lead themselves morally but, a moral leader does make sense. (Male)

Evangelical Women

	➢	I think it is important to be a moral leader but in a broader sense to be able to incorporate moral and values into the decision making process I think as I said previously having faith and a moral compass keeps you grounded and helps one perspective but the challenge is as president not to categorically impose your personal beliefs on others

	➢	A moral leader would be respectful of all people, keep their promises, and seek the best for the people, not themselves.

	➢	Extremely important!!! There was a time when a presidential candidate would be forced to drop out of the race when he was caught cheating on his wife. Clinton was the first in your face drop of morals. I could not believe he was not impeached for all his under-handed actions while President. For security clearance reasons alone he should have been in trouble. We need to reset our moral compasses with a great leader.

	➢	I think morals are definitely important.  And u won’t just do anything.  If u have real morals u won’t do shady stuff and lies, and corrupt.

	➢	It is very important for the president to be a moral leader. A moral leader would lead the country with integrity. He would be honest and trustworthy. He would not be involved in scandals, drugs, affairs, stealing, and so on.

	➢	It is important for my president to NOT be a moral leader.  Shut up about that, ok?  That is the very last thing I want or need.  Should I require moral guidance or leadership, I will look to my elders or clergy; I will pray and/or read the Bible.  The last place I would look for moral leadership is the president.  Run the country and stay out of religion, please.

	➢	I want the president to be a moral leader, because he or she is one, regardless of their preference to be one or not. They become an instant celebrity and role model for young people all over the world as well. Bill Clinton disgraced the office of the President in nearly every possible way. Having sex in Oval Office, having adulterous sex in the Oval Office, and elsewhere, then allowing it to be plastered all over the media. He denied so many accusations of sexual affairs or mistresses etc., it was just unbelievable and inconceivable, that he could be innocent of any, much less all of them. Now I think young people who grow up with ambition to be president, no longer value character or morals, because presidents like Bill Clinton (and to be fair maybe even Richard Nixon) didn't seem to need morals religion ethics etc. to be president. I would hope that whoever is elected would stand up, apologize for previous indiscretions and lack of morals and exemplify what a good respectable and ethical presidency would be and be a good moral role model for today's youth, instead of being an embarrassment to America as well as the Western World.

	➢	I think it most definitely is important for our president to be moral in everything they do.

	➢	being a moral leader is important but there are some times during war that the President is going to be unable to be. I believe we might have to lower our morals a little bit because of isis.

	➢	I think it's extremely important for a president to be a moral leader! I believe a moral leader, would display honesty and integrity at all times, not just when he or she thinks it's beneficial to the public opinion of them.

	➢	It is very important for the President to be a moral leader because so many people admire and look up to the person holding this position. They carry a great deal of worldly weight and to misuse it can not only be detrimental to us as a nation, but to many others around the world. A moral leader inspires y0ung people to strive to be honest, upstanding citizens. A leader like Clinton or Obama inspire young people to give up and go on welfare and hate each other's skin color.

	➢	Morality is a big issue to me. I don't want someone who will make big promises that they never intend to follow through on. I want them to do away with abortion and remember that that is a baby they are dealing with. I want to see compassion for those who are hurting. I want to see more racial equality instead of division. We are all people who deserve a fair chance. In my opinion, a moral leader is one who will work with both sides and come up with solutions that will help and unite. We need to stay one nation.

	➢	Morality is a huge concern.  We need someone with a backbone who will say wrong is wrong.

	➢	I think it is very important that the president be a moral leader. Whether he or she likes it or not, the eyes of the nation and the rest of the world are watching.  I think some of the things mentioned in the previous question are very important   In addition, I think while people understand that the president is not at liberty to discuss some things that are classified, it's still important to be truthful and not misleading.

	➢	It is very important to me that the President be a moral leader in regards to the Word of God.  A moral leader will take his or her role seriously understanding that there are standards set forth in the Bible for how a leader should govern and these standards will shape the President into a moral leader.  A President who is a moral leader will also not be persuaded by societal standards to appease many but instead will stand on moral ground.

	➢	I think to be President of the United States of America, you must be moral. I believe that an immoral person would not be troubled by the consequences of their decisions or the gravity of the power and I want my President to be both troubled and understand the power they wield.

	➢	I believe that it is important for the leader to be moral. I think they should be accountable for their actions, since they are the leader of the free world.


Activity 2:  Tone of The Campaign for President
How would you describe the tone that the presidential candidates are taking?  How do you feel about the tone they are taking?  How important is a civil debate in the way Presidential candidates speak and address their supporters and opponents?  How would you describe a civil tone in politics to a friend? What would it look like?  Give examples of politicians you view as people who promote or do not promote a civil debate?   

Catholic Women

	➢	The tone is very negative. I am completely turned off by both candidates. They are not being transparent. Trump not owing up to his false facts and Clinton not admitting her past mistakes and being very dismissive. A civil tone in politics is very important. It's important for supporters to see an even tempered and controlled personality. It should be one that allows opponents to disagree but in a respectful and truthful manner. Bullying, name calling and using an angry, yelling tone of voice Is not acceptable. Trump does NOT promote a civil tone. Clinton slings mud when she's not being truthful but she is more of a civil toned person. President Obama is calm, cool and collected=civil tone.


	➢	I think Donald Trump is extremely hostile. Just hearing him start to speak, his tone of voice makes me nervous. He seems aggravated all the time and I am not sure he is a logical person. He thinks he is always right and doesn’t seem to want to listen to another person’s point of view. That is disturbing to me. You have to be open minded as President. Hilary seems very level headed. She seems logical. I am not sure how tough she would be in illegal immigration. Trump seems tougher with that. I think Hilary would put families first and take a stand with our military. A civil debate is very important to me when they speak to supporters and opponents. They have to have respect for all people. Even if you disagree with someone it is important to hear their point of view so they feel respected. Otherwise people will not want to listen to you. I think it is in a candidate's best interest to act logically. A civil tone in politics is when candidates do not speak over each other, they do not yell at each other and they do not call each other names. It would be a somewhat tough talk, but not too tough and not too friendly either. Mike Huckabee, Hilary Clinton, Ben Carson all promote a civil debate. Donald Trump, Bernie Sanders and Ted Cruz do not promote a civil debate.


	➢	The last debate I watched I thought it was awful/ They need to stop blaming and mudslinging each other. Start getting to the real issues. Healthcare. Debt

	➢	The tone of all presidential elections ends up being downright nasty.  The candidates are more worried about pointing out flaws in each other and promising more than they are about building their image and honoring their promises.  Our debates have sunk to a level of not answer the questions, not following your time limits, making sure the others don't get full advantage of their times, and going for the biggest shock values.  Presidential debates closer resemble gladiatorial fights than political discourse.  Where candidates should be stating their ideas on big button issues and working to win people over to their way of thinking they are instead trying to avoid the issues and make each other look bad.  I have NEVER seen a civil political debate.  Every candidate is guilty of this modern debating style.

	➢	There has been such negativity and bullying in the primary and presidential debates this term that it is very uninspiring and disappointing. I have always been advised to surround yourself with positive people because negativity breeds negativity. I understand that politics is a 'game' unto itself but it gotten so ridiculous how most of the candidates have lowered themselves in the public eye, except for folks like John Kasich, Rand Paul, Martin O'Malley, Mike Huckabee who have stayed away from direct and personal attacks on each other's character.   These candidates all fell to the wayside while Donald Trump rose to the top based on change, fury and controversy.  I certainly wish that the way we could inspire the majority of folks was not by tearing down but by building up. Bernie Sanders for the most part ran a positive campaign of change too. I think that it really is vital to teach our youth, disadvantaged and uneducated that the way to be a proponent of change is to inspire and promote civil discussions where respect when addressing others is the key to true productive conversation.  Candidates can become excited in political discussions but making personal attacks is uncalled for.

	➢	The tone that they are taking is one of a condescending one. When it comes to each other, they bash each other and try to defend themselves. They are not focusing on the actual issues enough, but rather he did this and she did that. I do not like that tone. I believe it should be a more focused tone. They should not play like school children fighting, but rather focus their energy on tasks at hand. Because of all the negative comments and advertising and bashing, the true points don't really come out. All it does is get people riled up, when instead there should be productive debates where people are given things to think about regarding their candidates when they are done speaking such as yes I believe that or no that doesn't fit my own beliefs. I believe it is important to have a civil debate, but not one where the candidate simply rags on the other person and riles the crowd up to support them. It should be more of explaining their platform and answering questions truthfully, not like a politician. It is important to have that because some who may not believe in the candidate or vice versa may change their minds about the candidate. I would try to explain it to a friend by explaining that their tone is to try to get you on their side. They can be persuasive and manipulative in how they choose their words to get you to come to their side. The tone is somewhat of a sly fox in the hen house. The fox is able to persuade all the hens to follow him to dinner, which then they become dinner. This means that all of the sly comments and promises can persuade you to vote for them, but then the real truth comes out eventually, so beware. Someone like Donald Trump will promote it because then he can take charge of the situation and ensure that he comes out on top for the outcome of the debate. Someone like Hillary Clinton I would think that would not like a debate with her public email account hanging over her. I would think she would be more afraid of being called out on that.

	➢	I think a debate is very important. It gives the voters a chance to hear the politicians view next to each other and be able to hear the cons of each from the opposing politician. I think right now the tone is every poor. I think there is a lot of mudslinging going on from the Trump side.

	➢	I think the tone of the debates on the Republican side is just awful and about as crazy as it can get. Mr. Trump not only cusses like a sailor that most of the time on TV it is just one big bleep from his foul language. Mr. Trump is always calling his opponents names and acts so uncivil towards people that do not have the same idea as him that he just shows how unpredictable he is. As an example he is just rude to Fox newscaster Megan Kelly it is embarrassing and uncalled for. Ms Clinton runs a cleaner more appropriate debate and campaign. Ms. Clinton is clearer on the issues that are put to her and she treats both her supporters and opponents all with respect. The debates with her and Mr. Trump has Mr. Trump yelling and cussing and Ms. Clinton staying focused and acting civil. It is like night and day in watching the debates with Mr. Trump and Ms. Clinton with Mr. Trump not answering questions on the issues and not staying focused and then the name calling and racist remarks start and Ms. Clinton staying on point and more interesting to watch. No young kids should watch the debates with Mr. Trump involved. I think that former Gov. Jeb Bush showed a good example as how a civil debate should be run as well as Bernie Sanders ran a very clean well thought out debate as well.

	➢	I am embarrassed how this Presidential Campaign “tone" has become so negative. They’re really haven't been any positive or uplifting aspects in this campaign. Not only do the candidates fight amongst themselves, they also are disingenuous in regards to their supporters. I haven't decided if this is a tactic that there are using to confuse voters, or if they think that name calling is acceptable. Politics has morphed into ugliness. I can't think of a Politician who hasn't engaged in this new tactic of name calling and negativity. A civil tone in politics, in my opinion would be one where a Politician sticks to the facts, such as defining the problem, and how they would resolve the problem. Instead they use confrontation that confuses the issue.

	➢	The tone I take that the candidates are trying to portray is one of blunt force and one of balancing political correctness/incorrectness. I think Hillary is a puppet for her money financiers. And thankfully even though I'm not a democrat a lot of female democrats I know aren't falling for the female power card. I think it's the strings she has pulled which are keeping her out of prison right now because just like in middle class America that I've experienced it's still really all about who you know in order to be heard or getting a foot in the door. Her tone is misleading and very passive on exactly whatever she's trying to portray. I think Donald is the most bold one because he's not working under anyone else's money but his own so he can throw those million and billionaires out to hang who are supporting his opponents and it looks great for TV. One thing I love about how this political race is turning out is the fact so many hidden money backers are coming to the light. We are seeing for the first time who are pulling the strings of these candidates. That's the one aspect I respect in Donald Trump is that since he owns his money he can do his own talking unlike Hillary who if elected will have a lot of debts to pay in Wall Street investors. I think the fact that so many non-politicians ran this race (even though one remains) it proves America has been slowly waking up to the fact that politicians have been nothing but a face for financial backers who are really the ones pulling the strings in the nation's say of what happens or not. I love reading about Brexit too in regards to waking up in a sense. A civil debate is of great importance! It gives Americans a chance to see how each candidate will respond when posed with the questions were all dying to hear the answer to. It also gives opportunity to see each candidate against each other and judges them on character, poise and especially these debates cunning underhand remarks of he said she said. I am so looking forward to Hillary and Donald's debates. Donald isn't very good at debating at all, however his one handed slap remarks occasionally get the audiences in uproars either positive or negatively and create fantastic TV. These civil debates will be fascinating because Donald does not shy away from name dropping and bringing new light to hidden agendas. I'm curious to see who he brings up from Wall Street in regards to Hillary since New York is his hometown turf too. I would describe civil tone in politics to a friend by explaining candidates are taking a new approach to reach the hearts of Americans by letting us in to more of behind scenes of who's running who. They're including Americans in the conversation and are talking to us in a tone of lowered English so it's easier to understand certain terms they want to get across as well as defining their opponent. They encourage Americans to get involved in what they believe in. An example of a civil tone politician would be Bernie Sanders. His love for the lower classes really shows not only on but off the platform by his decisions to seat coach on an airplane, address every equally and really believes in his messages. Someone who doesn't promote civil debate was Ted Cruz. He is a classic example of a politician who says things he thinks the audience wants to hear and basically answers the question for you. He just really doesn't understand how Americans are evolving in to this simplistic form of speech and response. He tried to continue dying strategies of winning which in the end lost his place in the running.

	➢	I do not believe Mr. Trump has taken a civil tone throughout his campaign. He lies and slanders other people’s name. Ms. Clinton has been more civil (though to be fair I have not been following her campaign much). In order to have a useful debate for the citizens to gain knowledge and make decisions about a candidate, the candidates have to be civil. This means, not attacking each other and getting into a screaming match. I think a civil tone requires candidates to speak about the issues that are important without slandering their opponent. When asked questions directly about their opponent, they need to be respectful in their answer. It's ok to say you disagree with someone, but name calling and mockery are extremely uncivil. I recently saw a great clip from Senator John McCain's Presidential campaign. A member in the audience said something about Obama that was not true. The Senator politely corrected the person and gave Obama the respect he deserves a human being.

	➢	I think the tone of the debates on the Republican side is just awful and about as crazy as it can get. Mr. Trump not only cusses like a sailor that most of the time on TV it is just one big bleep from his foul language. Mr. Trump is always calling his opponents names and acts so uncivil towards people that do not have the same idea as him that he just shows how unpredictable he is. As an example he is just rude to Fox newscaster Megan Kelly it is embarrassing and uncalled for. Ms Clinton runs a cleaner more appropriate debate and campaign. Ms. Clinton is clearer on the issues that are put to her and she treats both her supporters and opponents all with respect. The debates with her and Mr. Trump has Mr. Trump yelling and cussing and Ms. Clinton staying focused and acting civil.
	➢	It is like night and day in watching the debates with Mr. Trump and Ms. Clinton with Mr. Trump not answering questions on the issues and not staying focused and then the name calling and racist remarks start and Ms. Clinton staying on point and more interesting to watch. No young kids should watch the debates with Mr. Trump involved. I think that former Gov. Jeb Bush showed a good example as how a civil debate should be run as well as Bernie Sanders ran a very clean well thought out debate as well.

	➢	The tone appears to be very intense this year. Aggressive at times. I feel it diminishes the campaign and takes away from the areas of interest. A debate is important for the voter to appraise what the issues are of importance to the candidate, as well as how professional and informed the candidates are. A civil tone in politics would be the example of the PBS show "Point Taken", in which individual topics are explored via various means. Not like a referee match.

	➢	The tone some of the presidential candidates have taken is juvenile. The name calling and bullying is ridicules.  I'm almost embarrassed by our options. With three candidates in the presidential race there are clearly differing opinions.  They must take a civil tone so we can actually hear what they think about the issues.  As a voter I need to hear the candidates’ views on the issues and what their plans are to address the issues.

	➢	Several examples of politicians who promote a civil debate come to mind: John Kasich - He tried very hard to keep the debates civil.  When he disagreed with one of the other candidates he simply said he disagreed and immediately went into his thoughts.  No yelling, interrupting or name calling. Gary Johnson - Gary Johnson is the Libertarian candidate for President.  He does not speak badly about the other candidates.  He sticks to the issues and has explicitly said he will not engage in disrespectful rhetoric.

	➢	There are two politicians that do not promote a civil debate: Donald Trump - While I agree with his stance on many issues I can't get past how he constantly belittles people with name calling and interrupting.  His arrogance is unbelievable.  I find myself remembering a quote I heard long ago, "What you do speaks so loudly that I can't hear what you are saying". Hillary Clinton - She isn't much better than Trump with her arrogance.  How can you have a civil debate with constant interruption and yelling?

	➢	As I said the Presidential race this year is contentious.  The tone is something that I'm embarrassed about.  We know each party has different ideology, but to bring it down to a level where the past is mucked up and spouses are brought into the picture, doesn't bode well on the character of either candidate.  I personally feel as if we are being dumbed down by making the race seem more like a "look at me" instead of "look what I can do".  A civil tone would be leaving personal feelings at the door, and concentrate on what each candidate wants to do and how they are going to do it, not mock the other's plan.  Unfortunately, I can't think of any politicians that are the voice of reason, but I think Paul Ryan is trying to bring some sanity to the Republicans.  I wouldn't say there are politicians promoting uncivil debate, but I don't think anyone is stepping up to the plate to stop it.  I don't think the moderators of the debates have been very helpful in trying to keep the tone civil

	➢	I don't think Trump has much respect for other people unless he feels that they have been as successful as he has. Clinton has been accused of being a liar although it seems all political candidates lie. They say woman have to prove themselves much more so than a man, so I wonder if there is any possibility that she can win. Trump has been insulting her and many others. She hadn't been so bad in an outright manner. Those are my thoughts.

	➢	I think the tone is getting very personal.  There is so much name calling.  It is so immature.  These are the people that are supposed to run out country.  I think a civil debate is very important.  The voters have to think that the candidate they vote for is able to run the country and make very crucial decisions.  Right now that doesn't seem that this can happen.  Donald Trump certainly does not promote a civil debate.  His ego is so big and his ideas are so off the wall.  It is very scary.

	➢	Surprisingly for as much tension debates bring they have been pretty civil toned. You can tell that even though they each have defend opinions they are holding back I feel as to getting their true feeling out.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	It is professional and essential for anyone, not just politicians. I would describe a civil tone as making a statement that is not nice sound nice. Non-civil. Trump. Civil. Ted Cruz. Hillary Clinton. (Male)

	➢	The tine of this election is anything buy civil with trump spreading hate and bigotry and personal attacks he was doing it before this election and it qill just continue to get worse as time goes on. Civil debate in a campaign is very important without it people do not want to vote. Bernie and Hillary have both been civil when it comes to debating even when they do not agree on the other Hand Trump has not been civil with anyone that he has come in contact with putting down other candidates attacking them and their families and throwing temper tantrums because news anchors asked him questions he did not want to answer her is nothing but a spoiled child. A civil tine in politics is when individuals even threw differing view are able to express their opinions and standings while the other listens and responds without attacking or making the debate personal an exchanging of ideas through taking and rebuttal. I believe both Hillary and Bernie promote and engage in civil debate. (Male)

	➢	I think the candidates are taking a very critical tone of each other. Trump isn't afraid to call names, but Hillary isn't above making unfair, mean comments either. I'd prefer the tone to stay more professional, focused on issues. But I don't want the candidates to refrain from criticizing each other and attacking each other on issues that are important to the campaigns: policy issues and personal issues that are relevant to holding office. It's important how leaders address their supporters and adversaries, I guess, to prove they're a dignified leader, but again, I prefer when people aren't afraid to attack on issues that matter. For example, I hated that Bernie Sanders refused to criticize Clinton on the email scandal. He had an open area of attack. I think a civil tone in politics would be one that was not afraid to have a heavy handed attack where necessary, on issues that matter, but wouldn't make nasty comments about irrelevant matters (person's looks, etc...) or use rude or mean language in general. I think Bernie Sanders is the only one I can come up with who promotes more civil debate. He doesn't descend into name calling, but for too long he didn't attack where it mattered. He could have done so and still remained civil. Donald Trump obviously doesn't promote civil debate (name calling of Ted Cruz, rude to Megyn Kelly), but Hillary also allowed those women in New Hampshire to nastily criticize all younger females for not voting for a woman, as if gender is a relevant issue for choosing a candidate (it's not). (Female)

	➢	I feel there are two completely different tones right now in this race. Trump is more or less on the defense (whether he believes this or not is no matter) due to his outspoken nature. A majority of the voters are just about fed up with his misogynistic and racist views. On the other hand, you have Clinton who is on the offensive and using Trump's words against him. However, she deals mostly with the private e-mail fiasco. Although many people, including myself, enjoy the barbs exchanged during debates, they can be quite annoying as well. I much prefer a civil tone because it shows how he or she works under pressure with the spotlight on him or her. If I were to describe it to a friend, a civil debate would include no shouting, yelling, talking over one another, and things of that nature. In recent memory, one that stands out is Barack Obama. Another who stands out to me is John F. Kennedy when debating Nixon. (Male)

	➢	I think the tone of this particular election cycle, and with this group of political candidates, will be decidedly hostile, maybe even violent.  I am extremely concerned with the last 6 months of this year.  The candidates are increasingly hostile towards each other, and their supporters are jumping on this bandwagon.  Between protests at speeches and anti-candidate actions taking place, this is going to be a defining cycle in our country's history. Politics are a divisive topic to start with, so it is hard to come up with a specific politician who promotes civil debate.  I would go so far as to say that civil debate has not existed in the United States in over 25 years. (Male)

	➢	The tone of the current candidates for the most part seems to be one of superiority. I don't like the current state of tone in presidential politics. It is very important for Presidential candidates to address both their supporters and opponents with kindness and humility. I don't see that at all right now. A civil tone to me would look like someone who isn't seeking to be "right" or "win" but one who cares for the questioner. A good example would be the way that Jesus responds to his friends and critics. I think Barack Obama is a great example of one who promotes civil debate. On the other hand, I think Hillary Clinton is one who is not civil in tone. (Male)

	➢	Honestly, the amount of cattiness going on between candidates is childish. I want my leader to be effective in communicating, even when they're criticizing someone. Of course a candidate is going to point out another's weaknesses to show where they themselves are strongest, but you don't have to smear a person to do that. I can't stand Hilary, but she does do a bit better job of promoting a civil debate than Trump. Sanders used to be good at it as well, but he started getting catty in the past couple of months. I'm a bit ambiguous when it comes to Obama, but I think he was a prime example of someone who could successfully promote a civil debate. (Female)

	➢	Right now, I think that they are taking a negative tone. This is the point where they are all trying to dig up dirty laundry. I do not enjoy that they are doing that. I think that it is extremely important that the candidates address the supporters as well as the opponents so that we know what they are thinking. I would describe a civil tone as being able to talk calmly while still being able to get your point across. I think that Bernie Sanders was great at having the civil tone. He wanted to help the people and he made sure that it was voiced. He also gave time to hear out his opponent. That is a civil debate, but what is happening now is not. It is just dirty laundry and desperation. (Female)

	➢	I feel that the Presidential tones are extreme on either end of the spectrum, very liberal Hillary or very conservative Donald Trump. Both sides are equally mouthy and too full of themselves and what they view as the correct path for the nation to take. Their heads are lodged so far up inside themselves that it's a wonder they're still sucking air. A civil tone in politics is level, cool, logical and temperate. Both sides are given equal opportunity to speak, and at the end of it all, we agree to disagree, and move on without blowing the world up. Trump and Clinton are uncivilized. Bernie Sanders uses a proper civil tone. (Male)

	➢	I would describe the tone as being combative - on both sides. The tone has been far from civil. In fact, I don't think uncivil is even the right way to describe it; the tone has been vindictive. I feel stressed and anxious about the state of the presidential election based on the combative tone of the candidates. I believe that it is very important for a presidential candidate to speak civilly and with decorum. The average American may not ever meet the president, but they know how he/she behaves and acts based on the way they present themselves. I would describe a civil tone as honest and firm on convictions with no ambiguity. It would look sincere. Politicians that I believe promote civil debate are Speaker Paul Ryan, and honestly that's the only person I can think of right now. (Female)

	➢	I feel like both presumed nominees are both embellishing themselves and really degrading the other candidate. I personally felt Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz, and Bernie Sanders all did the best jobs of promoting civil discussions in the Primary Debates. A civil tone in debate is really as simple as avoiding all of the disruptive basic logical fallacies people learn in classical education or in the early years of many colleges. It's really hard to for me to get a clear view of what the candidates want if they don't do this on a regular basis. (Male)

	➢	Ok, the tone...Well the tone thus far has been aggressive. But that is nothing new in American politics. Candidates repeatedly sling mud at one another, call each other names, and do everything in their power to make their opponents look terrible. I for one am sick of it. We are all supposed to be adults. It is ok to disagree with one another without trying to crush the other. I realize that I'm asking for an unattainable ideal, but a guy can dream. Civility. We go back to what I wish we could have. A true debate and discussion. Not just an argument and name calling. This is not the blame game. I think it should be very important for the candidates to have a truly civil debate, and answer the questions with more than just pointing out how terrible their opponent is. I think Ben Carson was an excellent example of a civil candidate. He was thoughtful, responsive, and talked about what he would do if he were elected. Trump, even though he is likely to be getting my vote, is a terrible example. In fact, he is probably the worst example I can think of. But other candidates are bad too. Even Gary Johnson called Trump a "pussy" (pardon me) on camera. REALLY??? You are trying to become the most powerful man in the world and you are going to use language like that on camera? That is just sad. (Male)

	➢	So far I would say the tone that the presidential candidates are taking has been very negative. I feel that all of the discourse so far has been centered on personal attacks towards the opposing candidate, while both candidates only offer meaningless, repetitive slogans when asked what they would actually do as president. Trump in particular has defied any sort of decency in the way that he insults and demeans women, racial minorities, and veterans. I think that it is crucial to democracy that civility is conducted by the presidential candidates. The American public must be informed of problems that we face and understand opposing approaches in order to choose what they believe is best. The current election has proved not even to be a popularity contest, but a contest for who can be the least hated of the two. A civil tone would look like a rational debate between the candidates, in which relevant and important questions are discussed and realistic and detailed solutions are offered. I think it would be refreshing to have a debate without moderators who bait the candidates into ad hominem attacks upon each other. In terms of examples of political figures, I would say that individuals such as Donald Trump and Chris Christie do not promote civil debate, because their performance in formal debates and their general public persona show little more than political theater. I think that politicians like Ben Carson, Barack Obama, and Ron Paul do promote civil debate because the answers they offer to questions are thoughtful and on topic. (Male)

	➢	I believe this election will have long lasting and global effects. With everything that has been going on in just the past 6 months or so, it's obvious to me that a liar such as Hillary cannot be in charge. Though, I do question Trumps faith at times when he makes sly remarks, I feel he is at least honest. (Male)

	➢	I believe the main tone of the candidates has been combative and insulting against one another. I really feel like it is a waste of time to insult the other candidate. It only comes across as completely biased and immature. A civil tone would be one that only focuses on the policies and issues and only mentions the opposing candidate in an attempt to compare policies and explain why yours are superior. Donald Trump does not debate in a civil manner. He spends much of the time name calling and promoting himself for superficial reasons. (Female)

	➢	The current state of the presidential election I could describe the tone as being manipulative. I feel like the two candidates, one being Trump in particular, are more worried about being liked so they say whatever they have to, to get people on their sides. This infuriates me to no end. The reason we have elections and candidates is for the issues we have and to speak about them and how they are going to change them! To be the head of this country, I believe one must be very educated. When someone is wanting to be the leader of the country you must act in a dignified manner and be able to hold a civil conversation and debate. I think that is highly important that the candidates speak to each other, the nation, their supporters, and to the press in a dignified and well-manners way. If our future President cannot speak to their fellow American as an equal and without hostility, how can they seek peace with hostile countries and avoid dragging the United States into a war. We have all seen Trumps rally's and his speeches, we have seen his campaign from the start. I, personally, was hoping it was all a joke, but that is one very long example of how not to act. He comes off arrogant and rude. He makes faces and comments against anyone else speaking. Do we want someone so simple-minded as President? He says what he wants to get people on his side, he's a manipulator, and I believe he is just bored with his own failing businesses and decides to run for office. [You speak of an educated candidate and I wish to ask you if you believe the news platforms out there, e.g. social media, newspaper, TV, etc. is giving the public the political information they need to be educated about these candidates and their position on issues? Or are they too concern with the personal?] I do believe that social media is more concerned with the personal and the trivial matters, but watching the debates and watching the rallies, there can’t be anything but simply what the candidate has to say. Now after the debate or rally that is when social media kicks in and starts twisting and turning phrases into what will get them views. (Female)

	➢	It is so important. If a candidate responds to protesters in a childish manner, such as what you would hear on a school playground, then that is indicative of how they will act in office. A civil tone would mean that the candidate would address issues people bring up in an understanding manner. Such as, "I understand where you're coming from and why you feel that way. These are the reasons I believe what I believe, and thank you for bringing insight for me to understand your viewpoint on this issue." What is not a civil tone is making blanket statements about certain groups of people, just to get the crowd going at your rallies. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	Our candidates our hostile towards each other and each other's followers. I don't like all the anger and hate speech going on at all. Being civil is very important because they can get their ideas across much better if they are not fighting so hatefully. Ronald Regan had civil debates and got his views and beliefs across to us perfectly. We don't need to know how the candidates feel about each other ...we need to know what they believe in and their solutions to our countries problems.

	➢	Since I have not really been following this campaign as of yet, this is a difficult one for me to answer. I have not heard either side first hand, and that is by my choice as I don't plan to do my research on candidates until around October I can only say what I have heard others say about the candidates. The only things others have said are about Donald Trump and his poor treatment of women and minorities. Apparently he has said some very discriminating and offensive things. This is the very reason why I chose to ignore everything in the media at this time of the election process.

	➢	Hillary is desperate-sounding, a joke, and shrill.  I literally took a survey asking me what behavior could she DO to win my approval.  But I don't like her.  She is a crony.  Rather she has them.  She is a career politician.  And her tone is NEGATIVE.  I see those ads!  The ones she does not approve of.... right...yuh huh. Donald seems to have no edit button.  This leads to a lot of media misquoting him.  But when I read up on the issue and read his exact quotes...I have no real problem with him.  He is very appealing as it is so clear that he is an outsider, and outlier, and has NO cronies in the political realm.

	➢	I personally find the tones of the candidates are taking to be unacceptable. I don't like the name calling, I don't like the put downs, And I don't like the bullying. I think a civil tone is very important, because this is the example for the rest of our country! How they speak while campaigning is a reflection of how they will speak to other heads of state. We don't want to be known as a country that doesn't have any manners or respect ability. A civil tone would be using please, thank you, you're welcome. It would be addressing each other with respect, using I statements, instead of blaming statements. I do not feel that Donald Trump uses a civil tone.

	➢	Tone should be firm in expressing their beliefs, but respectful when addressing their opponent. It should be mature not mudslinging ads that just incite hate. Trump, It’s fine to say that you think that Hilary should be convicted of __________, but then state your points that you are aware are facts. It's not ok to use national enquirer style headlines with red stars that look like Star of David symbols. The ONLY thing that saved you from being shut dis is that you didn't use a blue star or blue and white because those colors would have clearly been identified with Israel and Jewish people. To a friend I would explain that a civil debate would require each candidate to allow each other to their time to speak and that when they respond, it's ok to be human and show some feeling, but to respond in a controlled way showing some discipline, restraint, and well, basically, CLASS.

	➢	I feel their tone is more to deceive us by cutting the other one down. They sometimes are asked questions and answer saying my opedenendt is more concerned about or so fourth they don't just answer the questions asked. In a debate they should answer what they plan on doing for the country not what they want us to believe the other would do. Asking each other how they plan on executing their plan to get to the promise, be civil to one another.

	➢	It really doesn't bother me what the tone of the candidates are as long as they do what they say they are going to do. I don't like a politically correct candidate that is lying. I would prefer them to be truthful not matter what the tone is. if he happens to be outspoken that doesn't bother me as long as he gets the job done. I like Donald Trump’s tone that he's not afraid to say what's on his mind where Hillary strikes me as scared of offending anyone. it isn't really important to be the way the candidates speak as long as the job gets done. I would describe a civil tone as being politically correct which I think is ridiculous. Politically correct would look like a black cloud to me. Donald Trump does not promote being civil but I don't care, Hillary promotes dishonesty.

	➢	I am not at all happy with the tone to the campaign at this point.  It feels like they are holding themselves up on a very high pedestal, and talking at voters instead of to them.  Instead of telling us how they are going to fix the problems in this country, they spend their time dragging one another through the mud. or covering up for old mistakes they have made.  To me, Donald Trump does not promote civil debate, you are either on his side and cheering for him, or you are verbally abused by him.  I feel like Bernie Sanders is a little more civil, and tries to be someone that the public can relate to. You feel like he's listening to you!

	➢	The tone they are taking... Hillary - She is speaking with the voice of enthusiasm. She speaks with the sliver-coated tongue of profound evil and all that is dishonest. She gets people fired up at things that represent goodness and faith. Trump - He is talking the talk with the tongue that is getting the people fired up against many of the things that have gone awry in our nation. Things like intentional overwhelming illegal immigration and taking out isis killers are the things that are on the mind of people like me. He is crude - the opposite of the silver-coated tongue of evil. Yet he is not totally honest and sincere, and far from an ideal Christian ethical example. He is still far better with his crude remarks than she who speaks with a silver tongue of persuasive, tenacious evil. A civil tone in politics is one that comes from the heart with lies and deceit as its building blocks. I prefer an unscripted somewhat harsh response to a smooth talking liar. This is because to me a "civil" debate is one which is built upon the truth and sincerity. Thus it's not what's said that matters as much as how honest and sincere what's being said truly is.

	➢	I feel that both candidates are doing more to tear the other down than to build up their own campaign. It disgusts me that debates have turned so ugly. I want to hear what they will do and have them leave it at that. If debates were civil, I would hear them both speak and give the others a chance to state their ideas as well. A civil debate would mean no name calling or lashing out. They would show respect towards each other. Trump, for example, is one who resorts to acting like a child. He is rude and offensive. When he speaks about his own ideas, it doesn't even come out as making sense.

	➢	Right now I think it is a mudslinging.  They just want to show us how bad the other is, nothing about what they can do for our country.  It’s embarrassing to be honest.

	➢	I would describe the tone that the presidential candidates are taking as bold but crass with Donald Trump and saying what people want to hear but not necessarily truth or what is needed by Hillary Clinton.  We hear a great deal about "political correctness" and I feel this has contributed to the moral decay we are experiencing in America.  I am reminded of some Bible verses as I reflect on tone and how that relates to political correctness.  II Timothy 4:3-4 states "For the time will come when people will not put up with sound doctrine. Instead, to suit their own desires, they will gather around them a great number of teachers to say what their itching ears want to hear. They will turn their ears away from the truth and turn aside to myths." Many in America do not want to hear the truth of how our country has been affected by the moral decay of our society and instead prefer to listen to what "their itching ears want to hear". While Trumps’ harshness and crassness can be off putting to my perceived standards of manners, I appreciate that he is not afraid to speak truth in regards to how illegal immigration is affecting our country and how politicians have used the system to help themselves at the expense of others in our country. I think civil debate is important but unfortunately because of political correctness as I discussed above, it is difficult to speak truth and still be perceived as participating in civil debate.  It takes a very gifted person to speak truth as related to God's word in the Bible and not be perceived as judging, uncaring, and discriminating against others.  I have been thankful that Trump is speaking with less swearing but I am glad he does not let himself be constrained by these perceived standards of political correctness. Civil tone is speaking truth but in love to others.  I feel Colossians 4:6 says it best: "Let your conversation be always full of grace, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how to answer everyone." I felt for the most part Ted Cruz demonstrated a civil tone and promoted civil debate during the primaries.  He was never afraid to speak truth and promote positions that were supported by the US Constitution and when given a chance by individuals in the media or during debates was very good at defending his positions but keeping the tone civil.  I also feel Rick Perry, Newt Gingrich, and Rudy Giuliani are the examples of individuals who are able to explain their positions yet maintain a civil tone.

	➢	I’d say the tone for trump is not good.  He’s hateful and just evil.  I’d say Hillary’s tone I’d say is on the sneaky side.  And known as a liar.

	➢	I believe a civil debate atmosphere is crucial to upholding the tenants of the democratic process .... of course in try course of the election campaign there will be vigorous debates and spirited conversations. However, what concerns me is what can be viewed as an angry arrogance from Mr. trump and a segment of his supporters in thrnfi of violence and death threats as well as when trump singed out a particular reporter for publishing what he saw as an unflattering profile of his wife. As a result, from what I've read there were vile regencies to the holocaust rituals that we're offensive this was disturbing and trump didn't not inequitably denounce such acts. So his tone and tics concern me and I value the gop platform but am concerned about the personal under the belt insults .in would describe a civil tone as one that shows respect for the opposition and gives the democratic process the respect it demands you can debate and disagree on the issues but when the line is over crossed with insults it's disturbing

	➢	I would describe their tone as combative, which is something I really don't want to listen to. I think a civil debate is very important and should be expected. There is no reason to speak in a disrespectful manner or tone of voice to either your supporters or opponents. Even though I didn't agree with all of his political positions, I liked George W. Bush during his debates since he specifically made it clear where he stood on the issues without being making derogatory comments about others. I think he's a good example of how a presidential candidate should behave during a debate.

	➢	I think the current campaign is disgusting, both leading candidates have a lot of skeletons in their closet. I would worry that if a candidate cannot treat their opponent (or others in general!) with respect, they would not be diplomatic in situations where diplomacy is required! I live in Wisconsin and realize our governor is a controversial one but he does speak to others with respect and is well spoken. I think that if a person cannot be put on the hot seat in a debate without verbally lashing out, the person does not have the necessary tact to negotiate or smooth things over if such a need should arise.

	➢	I'm not sure but I would say to the best of my knowledge that they are civil. I think that they should be civil, they shouldn't talk over one another and shouldn't take personal attacks on each other. Being civil when they address their supporters and opponents is a quality I look for in the candidate as well as what they are saying.  If they can't contain themselves in that situation what will they do in crisis.


Would you describe the tone of the Presidential candidates as civil or not? Please give some examples.    

Catholic Women

	➢	The tone is not civil. Trump yells, screams, uses inappropriate language, bullies, name calls, his tone is always angry. Clinton is more civil comparatively speaking.

	➢	I would say Donald Trump is not civil. He keeps calling Hillary "Crooked Hillary". He is acting like a child in this way. I don't see how that helps us as a nation. He also has a nasty name for all the people in the Republican party. Calling all Mexican immigrants rapists and murderers is awful. It is just plain stupidity. I think Hillary fights back but in a more subdued way. I don't think she is anything but civil. She never calls Trump by any nasty names. She seems to just state the facts. She is classier.

	➢	Not civil. They r bashing each other like crazy Its awful

	➢	None of our candidates are civil.  Trump pretty much calls people names in front of the crowd and his speeches promote intolerance, bigotry, and violence.  Clinton never sticks to her time limits, often interrupts her opponents during their time, and does not discuss the issues.

	➢	I do not call the tone of the candidates civil when Donald Trump makes personal criticisms about body parts, candidate's wives or facial features of women.  This behavior put the other candidates on the defensive and things snowballed so badly that many candidates wound up participating. Now this does not dismiss the fact that some of the candidates who do not present such obvious offenses still manipulate the media and perform underhanded trickery to try to defeat opponents such as when Ted Cruz upstaged Ben Carson out of votes with false rumors of a campaign being suspended. Deceit can also occur quietly too such as with underhanded deals among the leading democrat contender.

	➢	The tone of the candidates is not civil. The tone is more of an aggressive one trying to sway the voters of the other. Donald Trump can be a very loud person in general, but during his speeches and debates he takes control and can be condescending toward his rivals because he wants to win.

	➢	I don't think it is very civil right now. I think politicians right now are focusing more on talking about their oppositions faults and not enough about what they are going to do for the country

	➢	Definitely not civil. My best example would be the statements made about hand size in reference to male genitalia.

	➢	The beginning of the debates was really bad with Trump all upset with Megan Kelly the fox newscaster and saying really embarrassing things to her and about her and then   Carson not having a clue what was going on and not being very well informed on most issues. Jeb Bush was very well informed in the debates and spoke well and was very civil.

	➢	I would describe both Hillary and Donald as civil toned candidates. Donald for sure because he provides so much insight on where money is coming from and information on businesses that are leaving the country. He really talks basic English too and I'm not sure if that comes from the fact he isn't very good at debates or that Americans unfortunately only really relate and understand this type of communication. Hillary is also a civil toned candidate even though I don't believe her she really tries to bring one case examples to her debates. Such as here is so and so off this tribal land and we're fighting for their liberties. She tries to bring a lot of sad front cases to light that really don't have much to do about anything and are very one sided cases.

	➢	I have not been following Ms. Clinton's campaign so I cannot speak to her tone. However, Mr. Trump has been decidedly not civil. He has encouraged violence at various campaign stops. He lies constantly. He demeans women and non-white people. He speaks about how awful Hillary would be in the White House, even though he backed her in previous campaigns.

	➢	Thus far it has not been civil.  During the Republican debates Trump gave everyone a derogatory nickname.  He and Rubio were constantly interrupting each other.  Cruz was a little better than Trump and Rubio as far as being civil but he too had his moments.

	➢	I actually have watched more debates this year than ever before.  And it's because it's entertainment, not enlightenment.  I'm not sure what examples are needed, but I think one thing that needs to be pointed out, as I stated before, that the moderators seemed almost humored by what the candidates were saying, and almost coerced them.  Basically it comes down to the interrupting of each other's thoughts and the hand gestures.  It just over the top

	➢	The tone is not cilia. As an example I would use the exchange between Megan Kelly and Trump.

	➢	I can't think of a specific example but the tone is that Clinton doesn't keep her promises or care about the people, just furthering herself. Trump's stand on immigration is helping increase his popularity.

	➢	It seems like Hilary Clinton is trying to keep everything civil.  Donald Trump is not.  His comments about Mexicans was horrible.  I agree that we have to keep undesirables and felons out of our country but all our families were immigrants at some time.

	➢	For the most part I have found it to be a civil as possible between the candidates. It started to get ugly a few times in prior debates but definitely a more civil tone has taken place. For example, at one of the last Republican debates both Cruz and Rubio started to throw jabs at Trump and Trump calmly shot their claims down by restating his stance and maintaining a civil tone.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	Trump is not civil personally attacking ever other candidate and more than half of the population of this country in one way or the other. And Hillary is more civil with sticking to the ideas and expressing her views on them without personal attacks. (Male)

	➢	Yes. Bernie Sanders is civil. He is almost too civil, refusing to criticize Clinton on the email scandal.
	➢	Donald Trump has name called Ted Cruz and been very rude to Megyn Kelly. That is not civil.

	➢	Clinton has had her share of not being civil. She was very nasty in the later debates (passive aggressive and arrogant) in general to Bernie Sanders. (Female)

	➢	So far, I believe it is civil on one side and not so civil on the other. For example, Donald Trump is mostly on the defensive attempting to undo the mess he created the previous day. The craziest part of it all is that he truly believes in what he says. His name-calling and misogynistic and racist views are not at all civil. Hillary Clinton, however, is able to attack Trump on his views because they are widely viewed as outlandish. She has been civil, for the most part, in that she responds to Trump's attacks without reciprocating the negative act or acts. (Male)

	➢	This cycle has not been civil, at all.  One only needs to look at the Twitter feeds of each party's individual selections for candidate to see that the rhetoric is inflammatory and as uncivilized as has been in nearly a generation. (Male)

	➢	I don't believe that the tone of the current Presidential candidates is civil for the most part. Hillary Clinton comes across as simply one who says things to get votes. Donald Trump seems to tear everyone and everything down and talk himself up. For instance, Trump has said terrible things about women, Mexicans, and Muslims. (Male)

	➢	No I would not. Trump uses some pretty vulgar and descriptive words when talking about others, Clinton came right out and called Trump a racist, and Sanders starting smearing Clinton recently. (Female)

	➢	I do not think that they are very civil. Everywhere you turn Hilary is being accused of past transgressions, and Trump is seen as a bigot. Why? Because the candidates have made this to look so. (Female)

	➢	I find the tone for 2016 very uncivil, with people on the one side bitching either for or against the other side. The Conservatives think that the Liberal agenda is opening the floodgates of nonwhite, potential-terroristic immigration, and the Liberals think that the GOP is going to regress the nation back to the days of Jim Crow discrimination.  It's all just one giant mudslinging party. (Male)

	➢	I would not describe it as civil. The hateful messages between both parties are very stressful. (Female)

	➢	Not generally, Trump likes to revert to name calling and Clinton typically calls anyone who calls her out a liar. I know that is a broad generalization but that’s about how it has seemed in all the articles I've read and debates I've watched. (Male)

	➢	I would say that it is not at all civil. The bulk of the talk is about how bad the other person is instead of what he or she is going to do. Too much name calling and mudslinging. Example, Gary Johnson calling Donald Trump a "pussy" on camera. (Male)

	➢	I think that the tone of the Presidential Candidates is certainly not civil. For example, Donald Trump's insults directed at individuals such as Megyn Kelly have made him come across as a crude and vulgar person. In terms of Trump's dealings with Hillary Clinton, I have yet to hear him say very much regarding her actual political stances, why he disagrees with them, and what specific steps he would offer as an alternative. (Male)

	➢	I feel it is highly uncivil. All parties just bash each other and attack when there are so many other issues to discuss. (Male)

	➢	In most cases they are not very civil but before key votes they tend to tone it down a bit. (Male)

	➢	I think the campaign has had ups and downs but the majority of the time has not been civil. The candidates spend a lot of time name-calling and slandering their opponent. For instance, Donald Trump makes up teasing names for his opponents. (Female)

	➢	I would say the tone of the Presidential candidates are not civil. They belittle each other and make it seem like the other doesn't know what they’re talking about. Trump is always my favorite example, the way he speaks of anyone who isn't for him is automatically wrong and stupid. He speaks of other nationalities and races as if they are less than human. (Female)

	➢	I would say it is very uncivil. It seems we have wandered from focusing on what each candidate believes and will accomplish to taking jabs not only at each other, but towards voters. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	From what I am hearing I would say not civil, at least on the part of Donald Trump. I have not heard anything on any other candidates. But, my friends and co-workers have said a lot about things Donald Trump has said as far as putting down women and minorities.

	➢	It guess it's not very civil.  Donald says something impolitic about disabled people.  That was uncivil, yes.  then the media loses its mind, and the PACS, and we get this sickly sweet treacly commercials basically using it against him, and I find this uncivil also.  I find it pandering, disgusting.

	➢	I do not think the current presidential candidate’s towns are civil. I think Donald Trump is a bully, and I think that Hillary Clinton is condescending.

	➢	No they are not often civil, but it seems to depend. Mostly it's just ugly and embarrassing.

	➢	No I don’t. Trump brings up the past when Bill was in office. Which has nothing to do with Hillary. She has made her way political game. She has proved to be a strong candidate. As for Ms. Clinton she brings Trumps money into the mix really has nothing to do with his beliefs.

	➢	the tone is angry. people are angry with the government and something needs to change. all the lies about each other are ridiculous, with almost all of them being untrue. they need to stick to the points and what and how they are going to get things done. some of Hillary's commercials are lies. I read her bio years ago when her husband was president and thought that to be the truth, but her commercials don't match up with it.

	➢	I don't think the tone is civil.  It feels like there is a lack of respect for one another.  I get that they want to win, but I miss the days when our candidates made the effort to win based on how qualified they are rather than focus solely on winning based on how unqualified the other person is. twenty years ago it would be unheard of for a candidate to openly call someone names, like Trump has in the past.

	➢	In the beginning of the debates, the ones who were allowed to speak were hurling insults at each other. For example, Cruz commenting on the size of Trumps hands. It was just embarrassing.

	➢	The candidates that are currently left are out to get each other. They are stabbing each other in the back cutting one another down and not really telling the American public what they're going to do as president. Their tone sounds like anger and backbiting.

	➢	"Civil" is a broad term. People describe Trump's speech as not civil when he speaks the words that are on the minds of many of us without self-censorship. People say Clinton is civil when lies flow off her tongue faster than people like us can keep up with. Civil-honest, sincere and did I say honest?

	➢	I’d say not civil. Cut throat.  And low blows.

	➢	I think for the most part it is civil peppered with commentary that sometimes crosses the lines of civility It's perfectly acceptable to point out what you believe your oppositions faults and positions you don't agree with etc. but it is disturbing when there is a subliminal or overt degrading of a group of people it's a cheap shot to stoke some folks fire of intolerance and anti-Semitic rhetoric an example would be the tweet from trump this past Sunday and more so the laze fare response to it

	➢	No the candidates are anything but civil. They are both spending too much time attacking each other's characters and decisions. They also seem to be criticizing each other’s followers. So much anger between the two parties as well as within their own parties.

	➢	Honestly, I haven't watched any of the debates, but I have read articles about how they went.   It seems to me that the tone of the presidential candidates has not been civil. The article I read about the most recent debate between Clinton and Trump indicated that all they did was mostly exchange jabs at each other.

	➢	I think the tone right now is not as good as I'd like to see and I expect as time goes on, it will get worse. I think the more there is at stake, as in the closer to the election we are, the more unpleasant and less productive it will become.

	➢	I would consider the tone civil when Trump and Clinton are discussing issues.  However, I have found Clinton to be viewed as more civil by the media yet her and the democrat’s attacks are often personal in regards to Trump. This is not civil in my opinion and unfortunately, Trump then fights back with personal attacks too.  He needs to bring to light many of the issues that are not discussed in the media but I would prefer he speak truth without being uncouth or foul mouthed.

	➢	So far I believe that they are being civil. Talking over one another and also personally attacking one another


Some say America’s politics has become so bitter that candidates can’t even have a civil debate anymore.  How do you see it?  

Catholic Women

	➢	I was upset watching the debates. They were definitely bitter which made them difficult to watch. Yelling at one another is not the most effective way to communicate your thoughts and opinions. If the moderators don't get better control, then I feel debates are useless.

	➢	I think Bernie and Hillary and somewhat of a civil debate. I think two candidates can be civil if they are two level headed people. It has to do more with their temperament.

	➢	I agree. They are so harsh and disrespectful It’s a joke

	➢	That statement is 100% true.

	➢	At first I thought that I was watching a reality show then I realized that all of the rules for decorum had been abandoned.  Yes, I think that it is a sad state of affairs when civil discussions turn into mayhem.  I do not advocate politicians lying and stating falsehoods in an orderly and civil manner either.  I desire honestly, integrity, professionalism and respect among the candidates that we will surrendering our vote to that will shape our future.

	➢	I agree with those citizens. I agree because they are so focused on success and ratting out the other to gain that success they don't talk civilly anymore. The figure that if they can knock their opponent down a few stairs then they have more advantage so they take it.

	➢	I agree. There is too much mudslinging

	➢	A civil debate, is where you share different ideas to problems. American politics these days seems to forget that point. There is no sharing of different strategies to resolve a problem. No, they think putting another person down, or exposing their physical attributes is more important.

	➢	I saw at the start of the Republican debates it started out civil but as the debates wore on it seemed like a free for all. Some candidates were civil others just threw barbs at each other and acted like a bunch of school yard bullies.

	➢	I wouldn't call the debates bitter at all. I think this is the blunt force Americans need to see because there has so much political correctness and sweeping under the rugs people weren't buying anyone's stories. I think not only does it make great TV but it's engaging people of all ages to actually start paying attention to the direction this country is going. Bitter and bluntness I see as two separate things. I think Donald is very blunt but makes very valid points and puts Hillary in a light where she has to answer uncomfortable questions not normally in a debate round up and I think it goes the same for her questioning Donald's tactics. I'm very thankful candidates are sort of bullyish this time around because questions are finally being answered and issues being brought to light but I wouldn't call that bitterness.

	➢	I agree. At least within this current Presidential campaign, I do not see how they could have a civil debate. Mr. Trump seems to say whatever comes to his mind without thinking and constantly demeans people all around him. I think that even if Donald was debating himself, it would be uncivil.

	➢	I believe that's true.  The ones who try to be civil are overpowered by the ones who are not.  Honestly, I feel like it's a boxing match sometimes.

	➢	I guess I'm part of the "some Americans", because I feel the same way.  It's beyond being civil now.  Unfortunately, there's no turning back.

	➢	I would agree. Important issues are not often discussed. Negative tones are present. That's how I see it too. Cut throat.

	➢	I think it is true that it has become so bitter.  People only remember all the negative things being said and are not concentrating on anything positive either one of them says. [Who do you think is responsible for the public to only remember the negative things being said? Social media, TV, newspaper, other news platforms, the candidates themselves, other politicians, etc.] I think all of the above.  While watching TV the first thing you hear about a debate is all the negative stuff.  I think we should know what the candidates are saying in their speeches but I don't think it has to be so sensualized. Report first what the candidates are saying they will do for our country.  I have heard people say did you hear what Donald Trump said about women, immigrants, disability.  No one knows what else he said.   

	➢	Haha ya I could definitely see how that statement is true. It’s common for things to accelerate and get heated especially when you have such a strong opinion about something. But in order for it to be a healthy and open debate both side have to be seen and heard. Even though you may not agree with what someone may state you have to realize ok well they have theirs and I have mine so be it. Agree to disagree with tact.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	American politics has become hate filled and bitter this country need a change in structure with those in power taking away rights but thinking they do not have to following the same laws and personal attacks running rampant. (Male)

	➢	I see it that way. American politics is very polarized. I think civil discussion and debate is always possible no matter how different your opinions are. It's the character of the person who determines their behavior in that situation (ex: Bernie Sanders has good character whereas Hillary and Donald don't). We don't have good politicians of good character on either side of the aisle for the most part. That's the real reason we can't have civil discussion. (Female)

	➢	I am not sure that I agree with that statement. I believe it just takes two special candidates emerging and running against one another. For example, Kasich and Rubio were mostly civil in the Republican debates and stayed on topic as opposed to veering in another direction. Bernie Sanders was civil in the Democratic debates and could have highlighted Clinton's faults (through her husband's infidelity or her own private email troubles), but chose against doing that as he stated that the people would rather hear about the issues. (Male)

	➢	The politics of the United States have lost all ability to be debated without excessive uncivilized conversation.  I am concerned that the civility of debate is gone forever in our country. (Male)


	➢	I don't think it is bitterness that is the problem. I think the problem is rather corruption. The money and power of the American political system has begun to severely blind the candidates to their own character and integrity. (Male)

	➢	I think that Obama did a great job the past couple of campaigns. It has gone so downhill this year, merely because of who the candidates are. (Female)

	➢	Honestly, I see the candidates in utter desperation. I think that you should not be so desperate to rule. It makes you wonder how they would be able to run the country smoothly, you know without seeking help. (Female)

	➢	I would have to agree - thanks to the excessive freedom of civil right, we've become too self-entitled as a nation. We all have a voice, but we’re all speaking at once, and no one is listening. If we hear something and dislike it, we cry "Equality," and hide behind our various flags. (Male)

	➢	I agree. It honestly feels like a pageant or a badly cast reality TV show. It seems like the candidates do whatever it takes to go viral or get more popularity points. (Female)

	➢	I think many of the candidates can, but because of the character of the two main candidates, it has been difficult to observe. (Male)

	➢	I tend to agree with those people. All the debates are anymore is an excuse to argue with each other, call each other names, and try to inflate their own egos. (Male)

	➢	I think that I generally agree with the statement above. The Presidential election has obviously taken a front seat in American politics at the moment, and it has definitely had very a bitter tone. I think it's important to not let this overshadow our perceptions of local and state politics. While not always civil, I think that the civility of American politics on the sub-federal level is comparable with the civility of national politics within most Western European countries. (Male)

	➢	I agree 100%. Every party is so into degrading the other that act6ual issues get ignored. (Male)

	➢	Politicians treat each other like civilians treat each other. Everyone is seeking to get ahead at the cost of whoever will pay. (Male)

	➢	I think the candidates have the opportunity to set the tone for Americans. We are looking for a leader and I believe a candidate with a civil and humble demeanor would not only be well-received but spur Americans on towards a more civil future. (Female)

	➢	I think that is very true. Instead of speaking about the issues and their ideas for the betterment of the country they want to dig skeletons out of closets and have a who has more money campaign. (Female)

	➢	I believe that is correct. A candidate points out something wrong in the other candidate, and instead of admitting any wrongdoing, they get very defensive and whine and cover up their mistakes, sometimes in very huge, unethical, or illegal ways. It's nauseating. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	This could be very true. When I first started voting I would not vote for any candidate who spent their entire campaign talking negatively about the opposition. At the time this still left me with plenty of choices to vote for. Today, if that was my way of voting I would not be able to vote.

	➢	`I did not watch any of the actual debates, so I don't know.  I guess there will be some in the future, yes?  I guess I will watch those.  I don't know if it could be truly called civil, but in a controlled debate, everyone gets a chance to speak and be heard.  It's trying to be civil.

	➢	I absolutely think that politics of become so bitter that we can I have a civil debate. I think there's more focus on the problems rather than on solving the problems and I think there's more focus on blaming rather than fixing.

	➢	A civil debate may be possible. I will believe it when I see it.

	➢	That's true. They bring in the smallest detail and twist it to make it larger than life.

	➢	I also believe that. there is a lot of anger and finger pointing that is getting in the way of the debate. all the name calling has to stop it doesn't accomplish anything.

	➢	I agree, politics has shifted from public service to a power grab.  It's mercurial and bitter, and egos come into play way too often.

	➢	I think that once things started going downhill with the insults and name calling, no one really tried to end things. They all wanted to be the nominee and had that at the top of their minds. If some of them had tried, we may have had better results, but none of them seemed to rise above it.

	➢	Throughout the campaign season I have seen a few politicians/ politician wannabes have some civility about them. Unfortunately, those are the ones who were shot down and never really got a chance to speak. The two that are running don't know anything but fighting and meanness and unruliness and that is not what this country needs.

	➢	Yes, bitter, racist, biased, anti-this, anti-that is how the evil will portray anything that has a chance of exposing the truth and opposing its evil. Name-calling. The best defense is a good offense. This is how I see it.

	➢	I agree.  They are so juvenile and hateful.

	➢	I would have to agree there is a brand of bitterness that in some respects is unprecedented .... I think in some respects the campaign rhetoric is feared to inflame and emotionally manipulate potential voters .... If I teach my children not to call people names what impression on values do grown men's sneomen role models day to them when they act like disrespectful penchant children ... I begin to tune it out and as a result may miss the message or idea there trying to convey

	➢	There have been several good debates over the years. The last election was not bad until near the end. I believe that these two specific candidates are just over the top. Too hot headed, powerful people each used to getting their own way.

	➢	That's exactly how I see it, and I just don't understand why that is. I really want to hear and discuss the issues, but it seems like the candidates just want to argue.

	➢	Oh my gosh, yes!!! I also think in the social media world we live in today, discussing has almost become taboo in certain situations. I think some of the candidate's responses to each other have just been attacks on each other instead of actually addressing any issues.

	➢	We are a more partisan country and this has led to a bitter tone to all politics. I find conservatives at a disadvantage because of the liberals in mainstream media. Republicans seem to attempt civility but this does them no favors because the liberal media has their own agenda. Would I prefer more civility? Yes. Do I think it is realistic? No. Those who stand for morality and true conservative principles based on the Constitution will be viewed negatively and attacked for their views by liberals. But, in order for these views to be shared and the people of our country educated on conservative principles, there will be accusations of uncivility even when there is none.

	➢	That is terrible and something wrong with that picture that they couldn't even have a civil debate. That is the what they owe the American public.


What about Donald Trump’s tone? What do you think of his tone?  Is it civil or not?    

Catholic Women

	➢	Ridiculous!! Not civil!!

	➢	Donald Trump constantly sounds like he is angry. He attacks other people, especially Hillary. It just shows how insecure he is. Calling people nasty names does not accomplish anything but makes him sound like a bully. I don't like Trump's tone.

	➢	No he is not civil

	➢	I think people like him though because he says what he wants

	➢	Trump is not civil.  He is an entertainer trying to get the highest shock value possible.  He is mean, he is hateful, and he is dangerous.  I have no idea what his actual political views are but his social views will take us back 100 years.  And he's happy to spout them in the most shocking ways he possibly can.

	➢	I admire what he stands for when he speaks in a civil tone. When he seems to fly off the handle, I just want to turn him off.  He represents change and has some good ideas for impacting policies, addressing concerns and jumpstarting our economy.  I fear his tone will get him into trouble and estrange our nation from needed negotiation with important leaders throughout the world. I realize he is a successful business man, but sometimes I think that his demeanor is an act.  Nevertheless, he has to stop acting and start performing in a civil way with the proper decorum and respect that an honorable leader should poses.  If not, he needs to step aside.

	➢	His is not civil because of his boldness. He is so bold that he will speak whatever is in his mind. He doesn't care who he crushes in his way to win. He has a condescending tone.

	➢	He is definitely not civil. I think he is trying to win by making others look bad he looks better

	➢	Donald Trump's tone is a glaring example of lack of civility

	➢	Mr. Trump's tone is always rough and mean and he is on the attack to anyone who disagrees with him. Mr. Trump's debates seem to have a lot of hostile people that are fighting or getting thrown out of the building. I will admit it is kind of fun to watch what will happen next or said with Mr. Trump.

	➢	Yes, I think he's civil. He's angry and blunt, but civil. There are times when maybe he's crossed the line into being a bully but I think that comes down to the publicity factor versus an actual opinion. I consider him civil on the fact that he's really, really bad at debating and so tries to replace that disqualification with blunt remarks. Occasionally some are on point and others get the crowd in roars.

	➢	Mr. Trump is the opposite of civil, in all things. He constantly demeans people, lies, and makes ridiculous statements.

	➢	NOT!!!!!!  While I align with many of his views I can't get past his arrogance.  He's an embarrassment to the Republican and to politics.

	➢	My husband and I were just talking about this.  I find Donald Trump to be abrasive.  I think he has some good ideas, but he's so busy calling Hillary a liar and a criminal, that it's hard to see past his tone.  I'm not a Hillary fan, but I'm getting tired of hearing it.

	➢	He uses strong language. Appears egocentric. Like a hot head.

	➢	Donald Trump is seldom civil and always is condemning.

	➢	Donald Trump's tone is very ignorant.  It is not civil.

	➢	I think it is. I mean really he only reacted harshly when some of the other candidates in a sense attacked him. Overall though he has handled the debates in a civil manner and tone.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	Trumps tone is not Civil as I have said before that is hate and bigotry as anyone can see. (Male)

	➢	I don't like his tone often. I think it hurts his standing in the polls, and so I really wish he'd adjust it. It's rarely civil, like with Megyn Kelly and Ted Cruz. (Female)

	➢	Donald Trump is beginning to become even more unnerving. He is steadfast in what he believes, which is great, but when your beliefs are so extreme and farfetched...it can become quite ridiculous. His name-calling and misogynistic and racist views are what turn me against him. There are still a few months to go yet, though. (Male)

	➢	Donald Trump is extremely divisive, despite his claims to be otherwise.  It is not civil either.  But one thing that I think Trump has over Clinton is that at least Trump represents what is perceived to be the voice of the people.  his election may be the "Brexit" of the United States, representing the will of the people more than the wants of special interest groups. (Male)

	➢	I think Donald Trump’s tone is one of the worst I've ever seen. His tone is supremely antagonistic towards everyone but himself. It doesn't even come close to being civil. (Male)

	➢	It definitely is not civil. It is crude and while sometimes honest, a lot of it is uncalled for. (Female)

	➢	I am a Republican, but I do not think that his tone is civil in the least. He throws his money around and pretty much pitches a fit until he gets what he wants. I do not believe that it is civil, it just comes across as childish to me at times. (Female)

	➢	Trump can be civil at times, for he speaks for the everyday American, angry at the influx of governmental overreach. Much as I dislike him, I prefer him to Clinton. (Male)

	➢	He is very forceful. I don't appreciate his arrogance or lack of intelligence. I do not believe he is civil. (Female)

	➢	I think he fluctuates from being civil and not civil, a lot of it depends on the person he is debating and the topic at hand. (Male)

	➢	His tone is hostile, cocky, and ugly. The majority of the time he is not the most civil guy. I'm looking forward to seeing him debate Hilary and see how he handles himself. I don't need to hear about hand sizes or silly nicknames he has for other candidates. I want to know how he plans to fix our country. (Male)

	➢	Trump is definitely the least civil of the two candidates. His tone is generally quite negative and attention-seeking. I sometimes think he resorts to personal attacks on his opponents because he has no real solutions to offer. This idea is further exemplified by the fact that he constantly flip-flops on his positions regarding just about everything. Although he is a political outsider, a fact he loves to tout, he has proved to be a fantastic politician because he knows that the majority of the American public will pay more attention to him though his histrionics than if he offered intelligent discussion. It's unfortunate that many Americans mistake his showboating for "speaking his mind" and "telling it like it is". (Male)

	➢	He is taking it too far just as Hillary is. I think a lot of times he is so interested in talking bad about her, he neglects other more pressing issues. (Male)

	➢	Not civil, he is a go-getter that is not afraid to step on toes or steamroll people (or countries) because he can. (Male)

	➢	Donald has been not been civil during any of this campaign. From the gate he has been insulting and name-called any of his opponents and has gone as far as insulting the looks of an opponent's wife. (Female)

	➢	Donald Trump's tone is the definition of not civil. He makes everyone that isn't exactly like him feel not important. That's the problem, America is a melting pot of cultures, not just white people or black people, we all make up this land. We are all important, and we need someone who is going to think for the betterment of all not just the one. (Female)

	➢	He is the most uncivil individual in politics that I've known of in my lifetime. He seems like he has so much hate in his soul. He looks at certain classes of people, and looks down upon them as inhuman. The faces he makes when speaking about Clinton or about immigrants is very revealing of his childish views and how he will handle the presidency. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	Again, I am not going from anything I have heard directly from him but only from things my co-workers have said. I would say it is not civil.

	➢	I laughed when I read this.  No.  No, he is not overly civil.  I mean, well, he does say some civil things (which the media never brings out).  I don't think he is the blowhard crazy person the media projects.  But I'll tell you.  Maybe it's time that the people of this country quit being so civil, since that has got us nowhere.  A disappearing middle class, mortgage crisis, the one percent just gets richer...I don't feel very civil myself about this.  I feel angry.  I feel robbed.

	➢	I think Donald Trump sounds like a bully. His tone is empty; he doesn't really say anything real. He also puts people down and to me it seems like a solution for every problem is brute force or abandonment.

	➢	His tone is highly unpredictable; he seems to fly off the handle from time to time.
	➢	If he's elected president, I wonder what he will say or do if another world leader gets him mad.

	➢	He is not civil. He doesn't have the experience that Hillary does in speaking in front of the American people.

	➢	Donald Trump says it as it is, whether good or bad and it doesn't bother me a bit. No he is not civil but I'm not looking for a president who is civil I want a president who can run the country and get us back on our feet again.

	➢	Donald Trump's tone is not civil, and I'm not impressed.

	➢	Donald Trump is the opposite of civil. He picked on anyone and everyone. If a woman was interviewing him, he insulted her. He mocked the other candidates. He has become so antagonistic that he has turned off so many people.

	➢	Donald Trump, if he would use his manners and calm down a bit could be seen as a serious candidate. But his yelling and his overacting just make me see him as a reality star not appear as a candidate for president of the United States.

	➢	I think Donald Trump's tone is very civil when the word "civil" is defined by the level of honest and sincerity behind what is being uttered. Let's flip over to Hillary’s evilness and her silver smooth tongue. When evil speaks, it has a pretty voice. When the truth speaks, it is not always pretty.

	➢	He’s definitely not civil.  He is a racist small mined bigot.

	➢	I have lost a lot of respect for him recently his tone is arrogant sled centers and demanding he stokes the fires of supporters and does not clearly disavow inappropriate actions ... He has a colorful past as well and he's demanding and anyone who doesn't toe his line .... truthfully I was am disappointed I

	➢	Trump seems dictatorial a lot of the time but that comes with his powerful station in his personal life. He is not used to having to be civil...just obeyed.

	➢	I don't think it has been civil.  He seems to have toned down some in the last couple of months, but some of the comments he's made in the past are just in called for, and have no place in what should be a civil public debate about the issues our country faces.

	➢	I think he's incredibly rude, disrespectful and extremely defensive in his words and actions. If he wins the election, he needs a lot of work on his diplomacy.

	➢	Donald Trump's tone is unlike anything I have ever witnessed in American politics! Is his tone civil? No, not really. But, his style works for him and his supporters that voted for him and won him the Republican nomination. I think his outsider status and unconventional tone is welcomed because people believe he will accomplish making needed changes in Washington and in the federal government.

	➢	I think he is on the edge of not being civil.  He seems to get very riled up when certain questions are asked of him.

What about Hillary Clinton’s tone?  What do you think of her tone?  Is it civil or not?  

Catholic Women

	➢	More civil and calm

	➢	Hillary is very level headed. She keeps her cool and keeps the discussion on the topic at hand. She doesn't start screaming at people and calling them names. I like her tone.

	➢	I haven’t heard much from her being uncivil

	➢	Clinton does not respect herself or her opponents in the debates.  She is often off topic and frequently goes over her time.  She interrupts her opponents during their time to say things that are also off topic and usually about her.  She does not respect the rules of a civil political debate.

	➢	I think that Hillary's tone is much more diplomatic, civil and up lifting. Unfortunately, I do not thoroughly trust her motives and dealings. I think that Hillary addresses others in a much more professional and respectful manner than Trump.

	➢	Her tone is bold as well because she doesn't want to be suppressed just because she is a woman. She is aggressive in her tone when it comes to dealing with Donald Trump because she wants to not let him have the spotlight. She also fights not civilly.

	➢	IHer tone is good. I do not see her talking down about Trump as much

	➢	Hillary Clinton's tone is also an example of a lack of civility. Stick to the facts, state the problem, steps to resolve the problem, then state how you would resolve the problem.

	➢	Ms. Clintons tone seems to be a little more normal and she is more polished and she is more focused on the issues. Ms. Clintons debates are on point and she answers all questions that are put to her. She runs a civil campaign and debate and acts like a person running for president should.

	➢	I think Hillary is also civil, she would have to be if she's still married to Bill. She speaks what she thinks her truths are tries her best to stand by them. Although she may know how to carry a debate better then Trump she doesn't know how to combat his smart remarks. And may lose her civil tone occasionally as Trump where name calling comes to play or awkward Twitter statements. But overall I think both candidates are civil individuals.

	➢	Yet again, I have not been following her. But from the little I've seen she seems more civil than Trump. She seems like a standard politician.

	➢	NOT!!!!!!  She is a little more toned down than Trump but not much.  I can't imagine what a debate will be like with her and Trump.

	➢	I think Hillary Clinton talks down to people.  I wouldn't say it's civil, but more forced courtesy.  I think she has a sense of superiority, and tells people what's good for them, instead of asking them what's good for them.

	➢	She appears more level in response; more professional.

	➢	She can be catty. [How can Clinton be catty? Could you please provide some examples?] I think that she insinuates a lot rather than comes right out with insults. Donald Trump has no problem with being very direct in comparison. Maybe catty isn't the correct word, possibly indirect would be more appropriate.

	➢	I think Hillary Clinton is really trying to keep it real but when she is debating Donald Trump that is very hard.

	➢	Hillary’s tone seems to be civil pretty consistently. She has been in politics for so long and has worked hard to get where she is at.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	Hillary’s tone is much more civil in the expression of ideas and opinion s without all the hate and personal attacks. (Male)

	➢	I think her tone is generally civil, but only when she thinks that's the way she has to behave in order to not be damaged politically. I think she has the character who wouldn't hesitate to act like a nasty shrew against other people if she knew it weren't acceptable in public. I think her real character and uncivil tone comes out in times of stress. For example, I don't think her tone was civil with Bernie in the debates, especially when she started to realize those debates mattered. (Female)

	➢	Hillary Clinton's tone is more or less fighting back at the "Crooked" Hillary claims. For the most part from what I have seen, Clinton has been particularly civil with regard to her statements. However, I will figure the debates will make me regret that statement. I believe she is a better debater than Trump. So, I think that will feed into Trump talking over or name-calling Hillary. (Male)

	➢	While outwardly more muted that Trump, Hillary Clinton's rhetoric is just as divisive as Trump's, maybe more so when you consider the behind-the-scenes impact of her campaign.  I think her election would be the final spiral out of control the United States needs to fall into collapse. (Male)

	➢	I think Hillary Clinton's tone is much better than Trump's. However, I still think her tone is one of dishonesty and one of selfishness. I think it sometimes appears to be civil on the outside but isn't really. (Male)

	➢	I don't pay much attention to Hillary, but I know that she flat out called Trump a racist and she seems to talk pointedly about him often. She is probably one of the better candidates in this the running as far as being civil goes. (Female)

	➢	I think that Hilary will say anything to get what she wants. Is it civil? No. A civil tone requires honesty and patience. Which I believe she has neither. (Female)

	➢	Her tone is more civil than Trump, but she's ultimately just a liberal mouthpiece, pandering to the young and minority voters so as to get votes. She's a frigid, feminist power-tripping bitch. (Male)

	➢	She is very boastful. I don't appreciate her view on policies and her Planned Parenthood agenda and so therefore cannot stand hearing her talk. I do not believe she is civil. (Female)

	➢	Her tone is generally decent, but she definitely knows there are topics that could and probably will derail her, and her tone gets aggressive toward the person and defensive of herself when those topics come up. (Male)

	➢	She acts more professional, but the aggression is still there. She accuses Trump of terrible things constantly. I feel like even though she is better at coming off as professional that she is just pretending. (Male)

	➢	Clinton's tone has been generally negative as well. She is more civil than Trump, but she often stoops to his level by attacking him on a personal level. Sometimes I feel that playing at his own game is about all she can do, because Trump's own positions are so nebulous. I feel that negativity has surrounded Clinton's campaign from the start, due to the email scandal. Even in 2008, I would say that Hillary Clinton was uncivil as well in her personal and frankly dirty attacks on President Obama. (Male)

	➢	She lies more than anyone and is totally uncivil in the way she speaks in my opinion. (Male)

	➢	Hillary acts civil but can also stray away. (Male)

	➢	I have honestly not followed Hillary very closely. For the most part she appears civil with the occasional jab at Donald Trump and/or the Republican Establishment. Her tone comes across to me as condescending. (Male)

	➢	I think Hillary Clinton's tone is civil. She speaks out and is bringing down barriers as the first female to possibly be our President. I think her tone would be best described as corporate. To explain that I mean she is a business woman, but I can’t help but to think she is hiding something. Not something in her background, but like she is scheming something. [I understand you believe that Clinton is hiding something, could you please elaborate on this? What is causing this feeling? What would you need to hear or relate to that would reassure you that she is not] I think it is stemming from the whole server issue and how she was under investigation, and still running for president. I have not personally heard her speak on it after they said they weren't going to indict her, but I may have just missed that on the news. (Female)

	➢	Clinton is the Teflon Diva, and she knows it. She gets away with things that would've been punishable by capital punishment a couple decades ago, simply because she's a Clinton/woman/presidential candidate. It is nauseating. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	I haven't heard anything from her either. I would say she is probably more civil than Donald Trump, however she does have the whole email scandal against her so I'm not so sure of her integrity.

	➢	I don't know.  I honestly have not listened to a darn thing she says.  Her voice irritates me.  It grates on me.  And I don't find her believable. Her and Bill took the money.... they took they money from special interests for their campaign.  I cannot believe her.

	➢	Hillary is more civil than Donald Trump. She at least sounds professional, even though to me she sounds condescending.

	➢	Hillary is all about Hillary and being the first woman president and whatever it takes to get her in that position. I think she will cater to any group that will listen to her and change color to match whoever she needs to sell to. I think if she thought it would entice anyone, she would sleep with whoever she had to get what she wants, but I don't think she'd have any takers like her husband did.lol.
	➢	Her tone changes according to who she is talking to. Her tone is civil as needed and as uncivil as she thinks she is justified in using and thinks she can get away with. She is so politically savvy, but she is pretty aggressive towards trump for sure, but when he attacks her, she is dismissive of his accusations. She must be getting a lot of advice.

	➢	She acts sometimes like she's a know it all, she's been here before and has worlds of experience.

	➢	I don't trust Hillary, she's trying to hard not to offend anyone and says what she thinks the people want to hear just to get elected then she'll carry on with all Obama's policy's. she's to civil for me.

	➢	I think Hillary Clinton's tone is more civil, but I wonder what her true agenda is.

	➢	Hillary Clinton has always seemed condescending. She seems to know what to say to defuse issues that come up after all her years in politics. I think she is relying of women wanting the first woman president so badly that they would elect her.

	➢	Hillary Clinton is nothing but a walking bag of Lies. She cannot tell the truth so much that I don't even think she knows the truth anymore. She cares nothing about anyone but her own agenda. Her tone says, I care about no one else but myself.

	➢	Hillary’s tone is very sweet and sugary. So is Satan’s'. Just ask Eve. When "civil" is defined by honesty and sincerity she flunks as she suffocates with her ever-expanding vast sea of lie after lie after lie.

	➢	I believe she’s civil maybe her morals are questionable.

	➢	I think for the most part her tone is civil and when contrasts against trump her demeanor looks more favorable

	➢	Hillary is slightly more civil but I believe it's a façade. She has been caught lying so much I don't believe much she has to say.

	➢	I don't like her much either.  While she speaks to the issues, I think personal attacks and jabs are just uncalled for.  It doesn't make a person look tough, it just makes them look like a bully.

	➢	I do not feel Hillary Clinton is as defensive as Donald Trump has been. I attribute that more to her handlers than her, though! She seems more focused on the future than anything.

	➢	Hillary Clinton's tone is shrill and not authentic in my opinion. I am not a fan of her purposed policies and her tone is not civil. She has the advantage of the support of most of the media and this allows them to shape her tone to be viewed as civil but I personally do not find her tone civil.

	➢	I think she has been civil\, she never gets riled up about any questions and just answers them.

Activity 3: Issue Positions
We are going to show you a number of proposals, please say whether you support or oppose the proposal.  Click start to begin.  

Issue Support

Ranked by Support among all
All
Catholic
Evan Mil
Evan Women
Sup
Pop
Diff
Sup
Pop
Diff
Sup
Pop
Diff
Sup
Pop
Diff
The president should provide moral leadership by setting a personal example for the country
92
8
+84
100
0
+100
88
12
+76
88
12
76
Religious freedom is under attack in the United States, and we must pass laws to defend religious freedom.
73
27
+46
59
41
+18
88
12
+76
71
29
42
Require transgender people to use the bathroom that matches the gender that matches their birth certificate
53
47
+6
53
47
+6
53
47
+6
53
47
6
The United States should temporarily ban all Muslim immigrants from entering the country as a security precaution and should increase surveillance of Muslims at mosques.
51
49
+2
53
47
+6
35
65
-30
65
35
30
The president should appoint Supreme Court justices who will protect the sanctity of life and overturn Roe vs. Wade
45
55
-10
41
59
-18
47
53
-6
47
53
-6
The United States should build a wall along the southern border to stop immigrants from entering the U.S. illegally
41
59
-18
59
41
+18
18
82
-64
47
53
-6
The Federal government should ban all abortions
37
63
-26
41
59
-18
29
71
-42
41
59
-18


Issue Importance

 Ranked by 1st Choice among all
All
Catholic
Evan Mill
Evan Women
1st
2nd
3rd
CMBD
1st
2nd
3rd
CMBD
1st
2nd
3rd
CMBD
1st
2nd
3rd
CMBD
The president should provide moral leadership by setting a personal example for the country
18
7
11
36
9
1
2
12
4
3
5
12
5
3
4
12
Religious freedom is under attack in the United States, and we must pass laws to defend religious freedom.
11
7
5
23
2
2
3
7
4
5
1
10
5
0
1
6
The United States should build a wall along the southern border to stop immigrants from entering the U.S. illegally
6
8
8
22
2
2
4
8
2
3
2
7
2
3
2
7
The United States should temporarily ban all Muslim immigrants from entering the country as a security precaution and should increase surveillance of Muslims at mosques.
6
11
8
25
0
5
2
7
1
0
3
4
5
6
3
14
The Federal government should ban all abortions
5
7
10
22
2
3
3
8
3
3
4
10
0
1
3
4
The president should appoint Supreme Court justices who will protect the sanctity of life and overturn Roe vs. Wade
4
5
3
12
2
1
0
3
2
2
0
4
0
2
3
5
Require transgender people to use the bathroom that matches the gender that matches their birth certificate
1
6
5
12
0
3
2
5
1
1
2
4
0
2
1
3


Religious freedom is under attack in the United States, and we must pass laws to defend religious freedom.

Catholic Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	This is very important to me because it's effecting all religions and their practices especially the owners of local/cooperate businesses. This is a perfect example of government trying to interfere with the private sector and misusing its ability as a government. This country was founded on division of church and state and now the US is trying to limit those churches religious liberties by attacking business owners and trying to find loop holes to overstep its power. Laws need to be established to protect citizens to private owned businesses liberties and not suffocate under a government rule.

	➢	I think that it's silly to keep asking organizations/places of worship to remove any signs of religious affiliation.  If you don't like something, don't look at it/watch it/eat it.  I always thought majority ruled, but any Tom, Dick or Harry with backing from the ACLU and a YouTube following, can ban a nativity scene from in front a small town city hall.  

2nd Choice

	➢	I explained all of my stand in the other question.  I really can't support any of these as they stand.  I don't feel that religious freedom is under attack in the US.  I do feel that personal civil liberties are under attack.  So if the wording were to be changed then the last item would be my 2nd issue.  I think freedom of religion, personal health, personal identification, personal protection is under attack. I believe amendment rights need to be upheld but that assault rifles/weapons should not be openly sold while background checks are so lax.

	➢	Tough list here, but I do believe that religious freedom is under attack in the US. Wanting to increase surveillance/or disallow immigrants who are Muslim is an attack on religious freedom.

3rd Choice

	➢	Religious freedom is no longer being protected. Laws are being passed that force people to do things against their religion. For example, with all the Obamacare stuff that passed, employers are being forced to pay for contraceptives even though certain religions find contraceptives morally wrong.

	➢	I don't see how religious freedom is under attack.  We already have laws to defend religious freedom.  Everyone is free to worship as they please.

	➢	Religious freedom is what our nation is ideally what was the reason we came to America for. We were tired of being forced into something. Freedom was what we were after and we got that. Why should religious freedom be any different?

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	Unfortunately, I know too many people like this where their philosophy is 'ignorance is bliss'. I completely disagree with that viewpoint and often drop articles and factual evidence to them to hopefully get them informed about what is going on in the country. But since these friends are a person of faith they are understanding and patient in learning. They are open to learning new ideas and listening to them they just aren't willing to do the work themselves, which is kind of sad and isolating. Since they are a person of faith too they do understand the sanctity of life and would blindly follow those politicians who support pro-life causes. The majority of friends I talk to have similar views on the existence of life and value my beliefs so we would just be kind of agreeing with each other and praying/discussing others would see our way.

	➢	I think that it's silly to keep asking organizations/places of worship to remove any signs of religious affiliation.  If you don't like something, don't look at it/watch it/eat it.  I always thought majority, but any Tom, Dick or Harry with backing from the ACLU and a YouTube following, can ban a nativity scene from in front a small town city hall.  

2nd Choice

	➢	Our country was founded on the principles that we have certain freedoms that are to be protected and as long as they do not harm another human being then the decision to perform an action should be under the individual's control not the government's control.

	➢	All are equal in the eyes of God. The United States was founded on this belief that freedom of religion is an inherent right. Why would you elect a Politician who doesn't hold this same belief?

3rd Choice

	➢	America was built on freedom. Freedom from religion was the foundation. Which I agree we should not be forced to follow a religion. As well we should not be forced to follow a secular way that contradicts our religion.

	➢	We all should have the privilege of worshipping the way we want as long as it doesn't interfere with others.

	➢	You believe in God right? What if someone told you today you could no longer believe in God? How does that make you feel? Is it not important to love all things and have a kind and gentle heart? Everyone has a right to believe in what makes them feel complete and happy.

Millennial Evangelicals

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	Christianity is not a crime, and should be as vigorously defended as other religions are. (Male) 

	➢	Religious freedom ties into politics and the notion of "political incorrectness;" we all deserve religious freedom, provided that we don't pressure others. More importantly than organized religion, though, we need to truly preserve democracy, and uphold the right to individual beliefs. (Male)

	➢	To me being able to worship how I chose to worship without fear of being persecuted is what makes America, land of the free. We must be accepting of what others believe and they must be accepting to what we believe. 

	➢	Christian values are a huge part of my family's life. It is the basis for all that we do. The atmosphere of our country is changing so quickly, that it is frowned upon to have moral values. God is a hated entity in this nation because of the values outlined for Christians in the Bible.

2nd Choice

	➢	This is the second and last issue I agree with regarding the above mentioned issues. I feel that since we live in America, the land of the free, we should be able to believe in who we want to believe and worship who we want to worship. Having different beliefs from your neighbor is what makes this country unique. (Male)

	➢	Freedom is what this country was founded on. If we lose our freedoms, we have lost ourselves. This includes our religious freedoms. (Male)

	➢	Religious freedom is under attack. (Think of a Houston court I believe it was trying to get a local pastor to submit sermons to them). But religious freedom is a key civil liberty. As a Christian, to lose that means persecution or the limiting of spreading the Gospel. (Female)

	➢	I chose this issue because I believe that a removal of a right to religious freedom threatens so much about our life as Americans. The ability to be a free thinker is something that protects us from the corruption of our own government and leadership. (Female)

	➢	I chose the Religious Freedom issue because humanistic traits have no moral standards and have no tolerance for religion. While Christianity teaches grace and love humanists teach self-worship and intolerance of religion. Humanists will strip all liberties of Christians and those of other faiths if we let them. (Female)

3rd Choice

	➢	I am a very religious person and I would hate to be under attack for such things. I think that someone should step in and take control. I do not think that anyone should be under attack based on what they believe in. It is not right. (Female)

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	I am a big believer in small government, big individual liberty.  Unfortunately, in the United States, no candidate will likely ever achieve the office of the President with that sort of platform.  With this in mind, I feel like the best candidate to vote for is the one who will do the least amount of damage to the current legal system and will actively seek to roll back executive, legislative, and judicial powers to the point where they cannot be as abused to the detriment of the people. (Male)

	➢	As a society, in order to achieve the truest sense of equality, we must protect as many differing perspectives as we're able, otherwise we're a nation of hypocrites. (Male)

	➢	I have many friends who believe in something that I don't. Or worship the same thing in a different way. I have visited their churches or houses of worship. I respect their beliefs and they respect mine. So I know it wouldn't be hard to get someone I know to support this. If they believe and worship how I do, I would ask them if they enjoy doing so. They would answer yes, and I would tell them how in other countries people are persecuted for believing in certain things. In some countries people are persecuted for believing in god, and for observing Christian ways. Ultimately that I am thankful for living in a country that lets us chose what we want to believe and we should keep it like that. 

	➢	I would tell them that this country is going to hell in a hand basket no matter who they vote for. But, I would have to lean towards voting for Trump, only because he believes in more conservative values than Hilary.

2nd Choice

	➢	It is important to support my position because we live in America. Soldiers have died for our freedoms. One of those freedoms include religious freedom and being able to pray to whomever you believe in. (Male)

	➢	Without religious freedoms, being a person of faith will become a very difficult life. All persons of all religions should be striving for religious freedoms here in the United States. The key is that freedom of one religion cannot infringe on another's. So if my friend is a person of faith, he or she should be pretty easily convinced of the importance of his or her 's own religious freedom. (Male)

	➢	Religious freedom is under attack, and as a person of faith that should be an important factor in political decisions. You want to have the freedom to practice your religion as you see fit. (Female)

	➢	If our religious freedom were to be threatened, there would be no stopping the government from deciding how we are to think and believe in certain ideas. I believe it is a slippery slope for government corruption. (Female)

	➢	If they are a person of faith, they should support protecting their faith. (Female)

3rd Choice

	➢	You would not want to be judged by your gender, or your race, so why should religion be any different? We need to have laws that protect those that are religious from coming under attack so that they are able to live the life that they need to spiritually. (Female)

Evangelical Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	The one I selected is more of a broad statement, less specific. By supporting this, all the others would naturally fall into place. 

	➢	I am not sure if we are really under attack, but that is the way things are going. I believe that America is still the greatest country, but I would love to see us get back to our more conservative roots. We need to remember that we are all created equally and learn to treat each other as worthy of love. 

	➢	This country was based on religion we have got to get back to where we came from. Whether people believe it or not, I believe that there is an almighty God looking down on this country and seeing the way we have shut him out. I believe if we let him back in this country can and will turn around.

	➢	Trying to overturn abortions and closing borders might take a while. Religious freedom is becoming more and more a problem as Christian are be demonized as radical hate mongers.

	➢	"I think everyone has the right to practice what they believe in. (as long as it doesn't harm anyone of course) Religious freedom is something our founding fathers built this country on."

3rd Choice

	➢	"This is right up with my #2. We need to be able to worship where and when we'd like. We have become a country that took prayer out of our school. It should be in school just like prison. Why is it okay to pray in jail but not in school. "

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	This would be very similar to the answer above. Our religious freedoms are slowly being taken away and if our country continues down its current path it will soon become illegal to be a Christian. 

	➢	Faith is what everything else stems from. It leads us to look outside ourselves and see what we can do for others. If we can have a presidency who looks at all sides and acts fairly, we can do so much more as a country.

	➢	If you've ever had an ounce of morals and you and you've ever prayed and believed, then you know that we have to vote a candidate in who will stand up and Proclaim one nation under God

	➢	Religious freedom is important because it’s causing so many problems right now. Think of the doctors being forced to do procedures like abortions against their personal beliefs. Pastors being forced to marry same sex couples. Everyone should have a right to their own beliefs. We protect the rights of Muslim or Buddhist and any other number of religions but Christians are being called radicals now.

	➢	I would tell them if they wanted to be able to go to church and practice their faith then they should definitely vote for the person that is pro-religious freedom.  I know that that person believed the same as I then they would definitely would want religious freedom.

3rd Choice

	➢	"Do you think we should be ashamed of our beliefs?  There is prayer that is encouraged in jail but frowned on in school.  Do you want your children to be ashamed of their belief? In other countries there are people not even aloud to pray in public is this what were all coming to??"

The president should appoint Supreme Court justices who will protect the sanctity of life and overturn Roe vs. Wade

Catholic Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	I feel that Roe vs. Wade does not protect the sanctity of unborn life.  I do not believe that there are NO reasons for an abortion, but it should be done VERY rarely and only with serious consideration beforehand.  This is a life we're talking about, whether you believe it is now or it will be shortly, it's still a life.  Do we really have the right to discard it for convenience sake?

	➢	Before the government can ban all abortions Roe vs. Wade needs to be overturned.  Until it is overturned, those who support abortions will always use it as support for their cause.

2nd Choice

	➢	The same reason as banning abortions. All life is sacred and killing unborn babies is just wrong.

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	The Roe vs. Wade ruling made pregnancy disposable.  It made everyone think that once they had conceived a child it was a reasonable decision to decide to abort the process for any reason prior to actually giving birth.  This has given some people the ability to make logical and reasonable decisions that their child is better off not existing.  I feel they are wrong, but they are not the ones that concern me.  It has more given scared teenagers or couples an almost expected out to an unplanned pregnancy.  Instead of increasing freedom it has made the consideration of aborting the child an expected choice.  When discarding our children becomes an expected norm in life society loses the value of all life.  This is unacceptable and needs to be rectified.  Once conceived our children should have as much of a right to life as our neighbors and ourselves.

	➢	My position is grounded in the Constitution and while times have changed the words of our forefathers are still valid.  Life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness was the words that established this country.  

2nd Choice

	➢	Yet again all life is sacred and life begins at the moment of conception. To kill and unborn baby should be just as illegal and killing any human being.

Millennial Evangelicals

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	To me this is one of the most important issues due to the belief that all unborn children are children from conception. I believe abortion will be the "holocaust" that later generations will be shocked by. I do believe the issue is much more complicated that simply "banning abortion" or "overturning Roe V. Wade" however. (Male)

	➢	I chose the Sanctity of Life issue because non-medically necessary abortion is disgusting perversion and robbery of human life. It’s as damaging to the mother as it is to the fetus. Appointing Supreme Court justices who uphold the sanctity of life - as well as the health of woman - is necessary if we want to see a future generation in this country. (Female)

2nd Choice

	➢	I because there are no other choices (Male)

	➢	We are murdering babies by the millions, mostly because they are an inconvenience to the parents.


Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	All children are knit together in the womb from the time of conception by God. Because of this, each life is a sacred gift that is supremely vulnerable. We should do everything in our power to protect the life of the unborn by making abortion illegal but also by creating governmental systems to protect life from beginning to end. I would include universal healthcare and great assistance for parents and particularly single parents. (Male)

	➢	They should support what I support because we agree on points of faith and morals. (Female)

2nd Choice

	➢	I do not believe that any of these are good or correct decisions for this country as a whole there is more to consider than some closed minded religious groups (Male)

	➢	The argument that people believe that human life doesn't begin until a child takes his first breath is just so full of crap that it makes me downright furious that people can hold that belief. It sounds like an argument someone came up with just to support abortion. I can have compassion towards someone who wants to have the right to an abortion for certain things, like rape, incest, or the pregnancy endangering the mother's life. But to see that child as an inconvenience and using that as a reason to murder it, and to have this be LEGAL is so absurd and sickening.

3rd Choice

Evangelical Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

2nd Choice

	➢	This is one of the important decisions that started has negatively affected our country. 

	➢	The Supreme Court should up hold our Constitution and the morals this country was founded on.

3rd Choice

	➢	I believe in the sanctity of human life. I wanted to put this first in some ways, but it's always a difficult thing and I think as long as abortion is used as acceptable means of birth control, then everyone who participates is guilty of murder and we are perpetuating a belief that human life is worthless. That is a view that I feel we see in Islamic radicalism or terrorism. Human life is devalued and someone needs to stand up for human life.

	➢	The Supreme Court is the one who said yes or no to the laws we need one in there with morals and values

	➢	If the President appoints Justices who will overturn Roe vs Wade, I would suspect they will be overall conservative in their views and will protect the Constitution along with protecting the sanctity of life.

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

2nd Choice

	➢	By allowing abortion, we are killing millions of innocent babies. These babies were created by God and we do not have the right to choose to have them killed. 

	➢	Our Constitution is under attack. So many of the newer politicians want to just throw it away. We were founded by God fearing men and the Constitution was just and fair no reason to stop following it because it's become politically correct now. Roe vs. Wade needs to be overturned.

3rd Choice

	➢	I would say the same thing as before, only more simply; that to continue to allow pregnant women to have abortions at will as a means of birth control means to de value human live and in doing so, makes us no better than the radical Islamic terrorists who no longer value human life which is evident in their mass bombings of innocent women and children as well as themselves, human life has no meaning to them. 

	➢	Think about this land in 10 years if a Supreme Court Judge is appointed who has no moral values this country will be far worse than it is today

	➢	I would explain to my friend how the recent decisions of the Supreme Court have affected the moral standards of our society and have been in disagreement with the Constitution. I would explain why conservative Supreme Court justices are needed to protect both Christians and the Constitution.

The Federal government should ban all abortions

Catholic Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	As part of my faith I believe in all life given a chance. All life is precious and taking one's life is murder. It is one of the ten commandments. Therefore, I am very passionate about this topic. Also, I have had two miscarriages myself and can no longer have children so it makes it a very important issue to me. 

	➢	The sanctity of life is more important than anything and life begins at conception.


2nd Choice

	➢	I feel strongly that the government should not tell woman what to do with their bodies.  There are many difference circumstance and reasons a woman may decide in an abortion and that is the woman's choice.  

	➢	Life is sacred and it begins at conception.  If a woman chooses not to keep her child, there are plenty of people wanting to adopt.  If the government were to ban all abortions, it would be a step in the right direction to establishing human rights to all life.

	➢	I am completely against this issue. I am prochoice all the way.

3rd Choice

	➢	Abortion is a sickening thing. Unborn children are a gift from God. No matter what the circumstance, the child is innocent. 

	➢	The govt should not ban all abortions. These medical procedures are necessary in many justifiable cases such as health hazards, rape, incest or when it is the best decision in a circumstance.  A woman should have the right to decide such an important decision when it affects her own body.

	➢	Abortions should be legal. It is a right for women to choose whether to have a child or not. Why would any government want women to bring a child into the world that they don't want?

	➢	Abortions should be legal. It is a right for women to choose whether to have a child or not. Why would any government want women to bring a child into the world that they don't want?

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	They should support this because taking away a life is a crime, but taking away life that hasn't even entered this world yet is horrendous. It is taking away someone's life who could have been a nurse, doctor, etc. 

	➢	As a person of faith it is easy to see the sanctity of life present at the moment of conception. The heart starts to beat merely 6 weeks after conception. To perform an abortion is to kill a human being, which is illegal at any other point of life.


2nd Choice

	➢	As stated above, everyone woman should have the right to decide what she does with her body. Many unfortunate situations often happen and a woman should have the right to choose. 
	➢	Life is sacred and it begins at conception.  A heartbeat can be detected very early and thus life.

	➢	Women have fought for all the rights we have today, why would we start to give up them now? It should be up to them to do what they think is right for them

3rd Choice

	➢	We need to respect life and make sure that all unborn fetuses have a chance to be born. It is what Christ wants, to give life and keep our humanity going.

	➢	As I have stated before, on some matters one cannot make a decision just based upon being on the left or the right.  There often is a 'grey' area or a middle ground that needs to be considered in some circumstances.

	➢	I would think that a woman who doesn't want a child would be abusive and not take care of the child properly. What good is there in that?

	➢	I would think that a woman who doesn't want a child would be abusive and not take care of the child properly. What good is there in that?

Millennial Evangelicals

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	I really felt this issue and the issue on overturning Roe v Wade is basically the same issue, so I kind of lump those together. I think the transgender is a little more complicated and detailed than the birth certificate problem. As a firm believer Christians should expect to be persecuted and the "prosperity" of the church has actually hurt it, I could care less how well our rights are protected (see 1 Peter for this theology). So I selected the issue on abortion because it absolutely kills me inside to know millions of babies are be slaughtered in the womb, potentially not even members of the elect. It is absolutely horrifying to think about when you get down to the numbers and science behind everything. (Male)

	➢	I am a Lutheran and I support abortions. I know that it completely goes against what my religion teaches, but women should have the right to choose what happens to their bodies, especially if they've been raped. (Female)

	➢	I wholeheartedly believe that life begins at conception and I believe where we stand on abortion speaks volumes for how we view and protect children. I believe this issue also speaks to how we see children post-birth and we need to see reform in our foster care system. (Female)

2nd Choice

	➢	I think people have confused the process of abortion with the healthcare "right" of abortion.  There is no denying that cases will arise that may necessitate an abortion, but to use the process as a crutch for bad behavior and wrap it in a veil of "women's health" is a bastardization of the procedure.  So maybe the government should stay out of the process of abortion, not guaranteeing access, but not banning the procedure either. (Male)

	➢	This is the second most important issue because I believe abortion is the equivalent of murder expect in a rare medical circumstance where both the baby or babies and mother will certainly die. (Male)

	➢	I oppose this issue simply because there are certain circumstances, such as rape, where you do not want to be reminded of what happened. You would wind up hating that child. I just think that everyone should have that option. (Female)

3rd Choice

	➢	No other choices (Male)

	➢	Life should be protected. (Male)

	➢	If we ban abortions, then they will simply start being done illegally just like weed and underage drinking. It doesn't really help it just makes it harder for those that might end up killing their child once it is born anyways. Catholics and other faiths misunderstand the Bible and think that abortion is murder. (Male)

	➢	I consider abortion murder. A government that promotes mass murder is not a moral government. (Female)

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	It would really be a longer conversation than is appropriate to type in this short text spot, but it would be an argument heavily centered in the Psalms, in the sovereignty of God as explained in Romans and Ephesians, the statistics of abortions, and the science behind abortions especially those after the first trimester. I would try to be loving but also authoritative on the issue, because ultimately it is murder. (Male)

	➢	Whether abortion should be legal or not has been a topic of debate for years. You can't outlaw something just because the Bible says it's not right. It is a personal choice whether someone wants to sin or not (not that I believe abortion is a sin) so leave it up to that person to decide. If we were to outlaw abortions, women would be finding their own ways at home to get it done, or they'd go out and have doctor's perform illegal abortions. If a woman is raped (especially by a family member) she should be able to choose not to have that child. (Female)

	➢	My position on abortions assume that everyone has a basic human right to life. It values any life no matter how small or insignificant it may appear. (Female)

2nd Choice

	➢	Healthcare is a complicated process and philosophy.  Many people want to argue for their specific procedures and necessary, and thereby should be covered by insurance.  One of the many topics discussed is the abortion process.  I believe that a medical necessity should be determined before an abortion can be performed. (Male)

	➢	I believe that all children are knit together by God in their mother's womb. They are a gift from God, and they should have all the same rights to life that you or I have. I think one way to combat abortion is to make them difficult to access. However, I do also believe that universal healthcare and other things like sex education are necessary as well to prevent the need for an abortion. (Male)

	➢	There are higher numbers of women who become pregnant without their permission. This being rape. They deserve to have the choice, don't they? I believe that they do. (Female)

3rd Choice

	➢	This is hate in this country by banning abortions we are stripping even more rights away from residents of this country (Male)

	➢	Abortions should be abolished because man should not have the option of ending a life for no reason. (Male)

	➢	We have far greater things to worry about than abortion. Just control yourself and you won't have to worry about it. (Male)

	➢	Life begins at conception. To allow abortion is to allow murder, and we don't want a government that doesn't support life. It's pretty straightforward. People will bring up the issue of rape. But that's a rare issue. It shouldn't cloud judgment on the rest of the cases. And besides, I personally think it's a black white decision. If the baby is alive, you're killing it. (Female)

Evangelical Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

2nd Choice

	➢	While I am pro-life, even I can recognize there may be certain extenuating circumstances that may require this choice and I think it's wrong to take that away from a woman. Health reasons of the mother or child should be taken into consideration.

3rd Choice

	➢	This goes right next to overturning Roe Vs Wade. 

	➢	I don't think that the Federal government should ban all abortions because there are times that medical abortions are necessary. For example, I had a medically necessary abortion during my 22nd week of pregnancy, ten years ago. My child was missing his kidneys, which is a fatal disorder, I was on the verge of pre-eclampsia, and I had no amniotic fluid. It was deemed in the best interest of my health and my life, to induce labor, which was technically an abortion. 

	➢	I would wish that no one would get an abortion since they would be taking an innocent life away.  However, I think that the federal government should stop funding and promoting abortions.   

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

2nd Choice

	➢	I think we should be fruitful and multiply, but to take away a woman's choice is wrong. An abortion is killing a child, but there may be times when that child may suffer more in life than it would by termination. And that baby's life could endanger the mother.

3rd Choice

	➢	Same as previous answer. Abortion is killing a baby which God created. 

	➢	I think it is important to let some things be between a person and God. We don't know where someone else has walked or where they need to walk. To completely ban something that may be needed as a medical procedure is unnecessarily cruel in these cases. 

	➢	I think the abortion issue is important for us to address. While we cannot stop a woman from killing her unborn baby, the government should not fund and encourage this.   It's shameful that it's only a few hundred dollars for an abortion, but many tens of thousands if you want to adopt a child.

The president should provide moral leadership by setting a personal example for the country

Catholic Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	"We need our president to be respected and be a role model. Many other nations look at us as the world leader. Our president should live a moral life and ethical life. After all, we American people look to this individual to lead us to greatness. We are not a dictatorship. We don't run our government by bullying others and being corrupt. "

	➢	"The president has to be a moral leader. He is representing our country. And needs to live by a high standard "

	➢	The president needs to protect the nation's citizens and future generations to come. Many of the issues above cannot be determined by either being on the left or right sides.  They are grey areas for many of them.  All abortions should not be banned, as in the case of rape, incest, or personal hardship.  Revoking this right would take us back to a time when illegal abortions created a health hazard for women. Supreme Court justices need to be open minded and start at a middle ground analyzing all arguments of a case. The US needs to protects its citizens by establishing improved methods on identifying/tracking/continuously surveilling terrorists and known dissidents; however, not all non-native Americans are terrorists. Illegal immigration has drained our economy yet we still may be open to providing refuge for the needy.  Why can't all of these issues be addressed by coming to a common ground, not an all or nothing deal?  Perhaps we need a 3rd party system to stop the stalemate of 2 parties being extreme in their political views.

	➢	America needs a President, who can provide moral leadership for all people, of all races, or sexual predilection and religious beliefs.

	➢	The President is the leader of the largest free country of the world and all eyes are on that person to show quality moral leadership. The President is an example for are US citizens young and old to follow and to be looked up to. Young people need to see what a person with good judgement and morals can become. 

	➢	"Although they are all very important, it stuck with me the idea of what the President represents to the United States and helps to shape the direction of the future of his actions and choices. (what do you think of immediately with Nixon? I think of abuse of power, JFK? Series of affairs....)"

	➢	If people can't respect who they have chosen, then how can they respect themselves.

	➢	"Although they are all very important, it stuck with me the idea of what the President represents to the United States and helps to shape the direction of the future of his actions and choices. (what do you think of immediately with Nixon? I think of abuse of power, JFK? Series of affairs....)"

	➢	If people can't respect who they have chosen, then how can they respect themselves. "I think it is important to have a personal moral leadership standard no matter if you are the president or not. I think it is especially important for the president of the united states to have because they are not only making decisions for themselves but for our whole nation. It would be horrible if the president had no moral boundaries. The younger generations who may look up to the president or even want to be president one day could develop a similar poor attitude if shown that. 

	➢	As of right now, I am very that neither of the candidates has moral leadership.  Hilary Clinton has been proven to be a liar among other things and Donald Trump has no idea what he is talking about.  Whatever he feels the audience he is addressing wants to hear that is what he will say. Unfortunately, I think in this day and age it would be pretty hard to find a candidate with moral leadership.  It may start out that way but once they get into office they seem to get more corrupt.

2nd Choice

	➢	A President is a role model to kids. He/she needs to be the moral compass for our country. They are an example of decency. It is important that the President be a person who is fair and unbiased.

3rd Choice

	➢	The country needs to regain a sense of morality

	➢	Integrity is important to establish trust.  Our leader must provide moral leadership to establish the integrity and trust necessary to lead a country.

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	I would tell them that the USA is being faced with a very difficult decision. We have one corrupt candidate that is continuing to try and cover up and lie about past decisions and another that have some good ideas but is a bully. I'm still undecided but leaning towards trump because we need change and new direction BUT hoping he settles down and cleans his act up. Frankly, scared to vote for either as they are both not the ideal candidate...which would be one with a higher moral compass. 

	➢	"Because it is important issue living in this country to have a leader who is living with morals 

	➢	I believe that politics needs to consider the values and principles that uphold and honor the individuality of choice, free will and independence without harming the civil liberties of another human being. Isn't these the principles that our nation was founded on?  Aren't these the basis for characterizing men and women as human beings who have a conscience, free will to make decisions and moral fiber to preserve humanity for the future?  Isn't this the basis for many religions even though it would seem that with many religions, there is a falsehood when it comes to dignifying the existence of all human life?  Many religions demean women, homosexuals, transgenders, other races, etc. Perhaps we need to demand that respect and equality be given to all human beings despite their differences to the status quo.  Therefore, religion and politics need to agree and comply with those values.

	➢	"For a person to lead a true democracy, he/she must be sure that their decisions, that ALL CITIZENS are equal before the law. A leader must have the character/fortitude to make sure that decisions they make won't benefit a few at the risk of another. A person of faith may have the character/fortitude to be able to make these compromises, but having faith should not be the only prerequisite. "

	➢	"You should vote the way I do as this person can be trusted to make good decisions and has followed what they believe in which is what I believe in as well. This person believes in God and lives by his teachings and is of very good moral character. This person would bring religion back to where it should be in our schools and country."

	➢	As explained above. That the leader, I.e. President has to have skills (crisis management/bipartisan skills for unity) that relate back to a moral code of ethics. 

	➢	Respect and having high integrity is something all mature people should have obtained living their life in the best manner possible.

	➢	I would inform them just how important it is for our generation to vote so future generations will be blessed to live in such open and involved nation. If we don’t speak up and vote for the things we believe in, then who will?

	➢	I would tell them that I have reservations about both candidates.  Check all the facts and then go with your gut instinct.  I think Donald Trump will set this country back years.  He has no real conviction.  He will try to go back to pro-life after women have fought so hard to have pro-choice.  He is so rich and doesn't have to worry about raising children that he cannot afford.  How dare him tell us what to do.

2nd Choice

	➢	If we have a hothead who just screams at people all day, the country will be in chaos. Christ wants us to all get along. We have to have a President who does right by people and not just for his rich friends.

3rd Choice

	➢	I think that the country needs to learn morals again. People are getting out of control and think that it is ok to act out of control 

	➢	The person representing our country domestically and internationally must project an image of integrity and trust and to do so he/she should set an example of the highest level of moral fortitude.  "What you do speaks so loudly, I can't hear what you are saying."

Millennial Evangelicals

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	With the current laws and corruption with the office of the president and the stripping away of the rights of individuals in this country the president should. Lead by example and if rights are stripped they should face the same consequences of these actions. (Male)

	➢	I only "support" two of the aforementioned issues. While protecting our religious freedom is key, providing moral leadership by setting an example is paramount. It would show others, not only domestically but internationally as well, the acceptable behaviors on which to act. (Male)

	➢	I feel like strong moral leadership from our president would sort out a lot of our issues and unite our country. Most of these issues are unimportant to me. I care about our country's financial future, our security, and our freedoms. But protecting our freedoms is my highest priority and I believe a strong moral leader can accomplish that. (Male)

	➢	I think that a moral leader with lead to a prosperous country. If it is setting an example, then maybe, just maybe there will be less crime. I believe in having a better country to live in. (Female)

2nd Choice

	➢	Hypocrisy abounds in 2016 culture. Either it's all OK, or none of it is. That said, expecting a human being to be entirely moral is foolish and goes against human nature. (Male) 

	➢	I selected this issue because as I explained earlier, I think if the president is leading our nations people in the right direction the nation will follow. We elected him for a reason. I know he is not the be and end all for what people believe but he has far more influence than most people give him credit for. (Male)

	➢	We are in desperate need of a president that we can look up to and respect as a person. (Female)

3rd Choice

	➢	I believe that it is of the utmost importance to have a President that is a moral leader as the President of the United States is the single most powerful person on earth in many areas of power. (Male)

	➢	I think this is an often overlooked issue, and is actually one that I take for granted as one that most people would advocate for. I think a President's private life should be their own, but they should behave morally, because I think our nation is degraded if we don't stick to our core values. A second reason that I chose this as my third most important issue is because I don't think that the remaining issues are terribly important in the grand scheme of things. (Male)

	➢	I beleive and personal moral code says everything about the way a person makes decisions and conducts themselves. (Female)

	➢	Personal moral leadership sets the standards for everyone and everything under that leadership. I desire our nation's president to uphold a moral code and speak with decorum so that everyone in our nation is inspired to live the same way. (Female)

	➢	This issue to me is extremely important, but the reason I picked it for third and not the first is because the first two are basic humanity. This one should be common sense, but it seems now a days that is lacking in society. I honestly think President Obama, the first lady, and their family has been an amazing example of leadership for this country. They strive to better this country even when people were against him for the color of his skin. We need someone who isn't just looking out for themselves but looking out for the country.

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	I would explain the rights of all Americans matter and not just those of a certain religious group. Why is there ao much hate in this country most of it is because of the politicians and also of the news spreading rederic and hate trying to tell individuals how to think we need to think and research and make up our own minds. All I can do is provide them with muly knowledge and the resources to see and understand what is right and wrong with the laws and corruption in this country. (Male)

	➢	The United States is very influential to other countries throughout the world. If our leader shows or sets an example of morality on how to behave, then the rest of the world may follow suit (generally). (Male)

	➢	It would be easy. I would tell them that a strong moral leader will make good moral decisions. A person of faith will find that comforting. Wanting our country to be in the hands of a good man or woman is like wanting a family to be led by a strong moral person. Strong moral families tend to stay strong in all aspects of life. That is not to say that they never go through struggles, but that they can weather the storm. (Male)

	➢	Donald Trump is an American like we are. He is wanting to make America what it used to be. He does sound bigoted at times, but he truly wants what is best. If we were to vote for him, then we would have someone in charge that is not being played by the senate. We would have someone that has their own mind. Therefore, if he were to make an honest a moral presidency, then we could accomplish that. (Female)

2nd Choice

	➢	It would be hypocritical for a national leader to support one issue publicly, but to support the opposite stance privately. (Male)

	➢	I would make the argument for what biblical leadership is and why it is important in the church and in the greater culture. I would probably lead him to Al Mohler's book "The Conviction to Lead." (Male)

	➢	We definitely need a president that we can look up to. If society can't respect their leader, our situation will only get worse and worse. When we choose a president, we're choosing someone to protect our lives. We need to choose wisely and we need a good person to put our trust in. (Female)

3rd Choice

	➢	If you look at the history of civilizations, you will soon realize that civilizations rise and fall many times based on the integrity of the leadership. Particularly, the Old Testament lays out that the people of Israel flourished under the leadership of good kings and was threatened greatly under the leadership of bad kings. (Male)

	➢	I would tell him that a moral leader would likely, by extension, be more principled and act more ethically than one who behaved immorally. I would ask him or her whether or not he would trust a President who would likely act unethically, and whether her or she would want to put our values as Americans at risk as a result. (Male)

	➢	People are natural followers and a president in good moral standing will not only encourage Americans to be upstanding but allow congress to be positively influenced as well. 

	➢	Because if they are an individual who lives according to a moral code they should expect the same out of those in leadership. (Female)

	➢	Would you not want someone who does what they say they are going to do? A respectable President who is not trying to hide thing or cheat one group out of something. I would want a President who is looking after America as a whole not just one part.

Evangelical Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	"Because if a president sets a good moral example for the country (regardless of his political philosophy) at the very least, the young people of our country will have a positive role model and there will be some hope of restoring dignity back to the White House, the office of the president, and in turn our country as a whole. It is my belief that a person works and acts and lives out from what they believe on the inside. If what they believe is good and just and moral, then a lot of decisions they will come up against, will be decided in their heart, before they even encounter them."

	➢	I think that the leader of a country should set an example for positive behavior. This doesn't mean that they can never have had transgressions or issues in their lives; it means that they have taken responsibility for their actions, whether positive or negative, and that they set an example of how to live a responsible, kind, humble, and generous life.  

	➢	I believe the president should set the example to the public he serves as well as the rest of the world. He or she represents what we stand for, and that should be a positive thing.

	➢	I think nationally and globally the president of the free world represents the American people and the American Ideal I think in the climate of outrageous reality tv where anything goes it's comforting to have out head of state project a presidential morally respectful image 

	➢	While I do support a few of these other positions, and support groups that advocate for them, I think the most important thing a president can and needs to do is to show moral character and integrity.  

2nd Choice

	➢	The President should be the most moral of all. Not only do we look up to them so do our children 

	➢	Everything starts at the top and trickles down. If the president acts with high morals, it will lead to those under them to act and lead the same.

	➢	I believe we need a president who's not afraid of upsetting people by calling out what is wrong. We need a president who will stand firm on his beliefs and not be swayed because of pressure.

3rd Choice

	➢	Please disregard that answer.  I don't believe that at all.  The third most important thing is the minimum wage.  Too many people are relying on that to feed their family.  We need a living wage.  We deserve it.

	➢	the president of the US should be a trend-setter in the upright citizen department. after all, this is the top office in the country. Children and young people look up to the president, and even dream of holding that post one day. a president who despises America due to their communist, freedom-hating upbringing has the opposite goal.

	➢	I do think our president has a moral obligation.  He’s leading our country and children look up to him. 

	➢	I think a good example should be set by the leader of our country. I think our leader should live an honest lifestyle.

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	"It is my belief that a person works and acts and lives out from what they believe on the inside. If what they believe is good and just and moral, then a lot of decisions they will come up against, will be decided in their heart, before they even encounter them. I would like to know that a world leader was truly a person of prayer and they acknowledge that they can do nothing on their own.  All of the other options listed may have held some validity on some level, but most of them were not good clear choices. So by selecting the one requiring president to be a good moral leader, he would have to have some good morals. That's my rationale, but I have no illusions that it would actually work out that way. I just felt the choices given were impossible to pick one."

	➢	If they are of the same faith that I am, I would tell them that it is important to support a leader who is similar in leadership qualities as Jesus, because we strive to be like Jesus in our faith and belief. 

	➢	I know he comes off as uncivil and rude and completely unpolished, in spite of that, he's open and honest about his past.  I chalk his current behavior up to inexperience in politics (let’s face it, seasoned politicians have people telling them exactly what they need to say to make people love them) and I believe he has the countries best interest at heart.  He's made a career out of taking no flack off of people and he's been very successful.  I think with time, experience and trusted advisors he can be what this country needs.

	➢	In would tell them that embracing faith is an anchor in stormy weather a concrete lifeline to weather any storm it's a viable component of sound just decision making and speaks to on charter 

	➢	I think the primary reason why the president needs to have moral character and integrity is because he or she is going to face many situations that will be classified and won't be able to speak about with very many people. More than anything else, they will need a moral compass to guide them to do the right thing.

2nd Choice

	➢	Would you find it proper if our President was saying bad things, words, drinking in public not a church going family.

	➢	The world looks to our leaders and assumes we are like them. I want someone who has strong morals and cares about what happens to everyone, not just those who supported them initially.

	➢	I just want to see this country back to what it was before and it's going to take a strong president so you'll have to decide who do you think can do that job

3rd Choice

	➢	I honestly don't care who others support.  It's their choice.  It's their right.  It is also their option to not vote at all.  I would encourage them to look at the issues and take a stand on personal freedom.  We don't need more laws saying we can't do this and we can't do that.  We don't need laws that discriminate.  I would ask them to vote based on their conscience, like we all do.  Or try to.  There is not much of a choice.

	➢	You should support this position because if you have children do you want them to love this country by watching a leader who sets a good example? If not, then you'll get someone who wants to divide the country based on skin color and to stoke the fire of hatred between people every chance he gets.

	➢	I’d say that morals are a huge part for being a leader and a president 

	➢	The leader of our country should set an example for the American people by being moral and living an honest lifestyle devoid of any scandals.

The United States should build a wall along the southern border to stop immigrants from entering the U.S. illegally

Catholic Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	I chose this one because I think there are too many illegal immigrants using our services. Some of them get health insurance for free when I know hard working people who have to pay a lot for theirs. It is not fair.

	➢	I think that too many illegal immigrants are getting into the country

2nd Choice

	➢	"Well we have way took many illegal immigrants in this country. It’s a disgrace how they live here and treat us Americans with disrespect. And get everything for free and we can’t get anything"

	➢	"This is difficult as I agree in part with some of the statements but then the entire sentence appears quite dismal overall. I guess I would state the above as immigration continues to be a problem as places an extreme burden in our society."

3rd Choice

	➢	America is the land of the free.  We were founded on diversity and we should continue to allow people into our country however, it should be with proper paperwork and they should have a vested interest in our country and should become citizens of the USA and tax paying ones. Building a wall is not the answer. Proper immigration reform is needed.

	➢	This issue is something that I believe in where I believe we should take care of our own first. All of the illegals come here and they get the benefits and we can't. We have homeless people on the streets take care of them first. 

	➢	We need to somehow need to stop the flow of illegal immigrants into this country and this maybe one way to do this. I think that we need to make sure that we know who is coming into this country and have good intentions towards our country.

	➢	I selected the wall issue because I have firsthand experience growing up in a border town close to the AZ/Mexican border and have many personal stories as well as friend’s stories of encountering illegals close to the border. I think a wall would help deter smugglers but also establish a boundary because I have many friends who are border patrol agents now and it's not only the Mexicans illegally crossing but they've told me the other two nationalities they see crossing the borders are Chinese and Middle Easterners (which are the ones you definitely never want to encounter).

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	I would say to her that it is what is biblically right and is right according to our Constitution. Let people into the country legally. It is as if people are breaking the law to come here and the Americans who pay taxes have to support these people.

	➢	When illegal immigrants come into the country costing taxpayers’ money

2nd Choice

	➢	"This would be easy to tell a friend. Look around you see this on a daily basis how bad our country is becoming "

	➢	Support for the above statement with a taxing of the system remains. The other sentences in a lot of ways repress certain people of the population. While I do not agree with abortion, it is a mistake to slant the Supreme Court in favor of that sole purpose.

3rd Choice

	➢	I would tell them what I mentioned above. Building a wall is not the answer. It's expensive and moving in a backward direction for our nation. That's not the answer to immigration. Law makers need to come up with a reform policy.

	➢	There are homeless people on the streets and people in our own country starving and fighting for benefits they should make sure that illegals cannot get the benefits. They should go through the process like everyone else. That is why we need a wall because they keep coming in.

	➢	I think you should support my way of thinking as we have to have a person in office that can take a hard stance on immigration and build a wall or whatever it takes to stop the flow of illegal immigrants coming into our country. These immigrants are using our welfare resources and we have no way to see if they have good intentions or bad intentions towards our country. We have to have a way to make sure that we keep our country safe and if building a wall is one way then I say build away and have the people on welfare and have no jobs build it.

	➢	I would share my personal stories as well as my friend’s personal stories of growing up close to the border. Growing up so close you know who the illegals are that are the smugglers and who are the ones trying to make a new life (which many don't cross like this anymore.) The smuggling stories though can be tricky because the cartels don't usually send over their men to do the work but rather hold hostage families of men. They'll recruit random people so they don't know who they're working for and get them to smuggle the drugs over the line and once the delivery is made these men wait at the side of the road until border patrol picks them up and buses or flies them back to Mexico. It's then that the man's family gets released. My husband unfortunately has seen a lot more then me though. He recalls a time during an elementary summer camp walking through the desert with his group and coming across a deceased body who was smuggling cocaine in his stomach where the bags exploded inside, he was about 7 years old seeing that. I could share stories with my friends all afternoon of scary and sad stories. Let's just say if an illegal finds themselves on one of the local Indian reservations lining the borders that a whole other dilemma which some gruesome and sad stories too.  

Millennial Evangelicals

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	The border needs to be protected and we need to set an example against terrorists. (Male)

	➢	I am far more concerned with foreign policy issues when making my decisions. If we don't stop the flow of illegal immigrants, our country will be overrun. There's only so many we can take. We need to have a process in place to allow immigration. It's a good thing, but not when done illegally. (Female)

2nd Choice

	➢	I chose this as my second most important issue because it is similar my first in that it won't do much to solve any problems, and it will have adverse effects. I think the solution of building a wall to stop illegal immigration is silly because many immigrants come here legally and overstay their visa, which becomes illegal. Building a wall will only cause us to spend even more money, adding to our budget deficit (Mexico simply isn't going to pay for it, and the protectionist trade policies Trump advocates for funding the wall will only cause strain on the American Middle and Lower Class), and it won't keep the majority of would-be illegal immigrants out. (Male)

	➢	Why would we spend so much time and effort building a wall like this? What we should do instead is fix the requirements to become a citizen. Detroit, Philadelphia, and countless other cities have vacancy out the wazoo. Why not fill it with hard working Hispanics? I have great friends who hopped the border. They are useful to the US and work harder than most tattooed druggies at McDonalds. (Male)

	➢	I was opposed to this selection but it is very important that we don't do that. People don't realize it the immigrants who are coming over to America and working tirelessly to put money into our economies and they are the ones working in the fields to get us our food that's in the stores. They are the ones working at the chicken processing plants, the ones working two or three jobs trying to send money home to their families. That's all they want is to make something more of themselves that they couldn't do in their homeland.

3rd Choice

	➢	Honestly this issue is not that important to me y'all just wanted me to select another issue. (Male)

	➢	I am not opposed to immigrants from our southern border, but they must come here legally. I would even be open to the idea of increasing the number of visas we issue. But I want every person that crosses the border to be accounted for. This is important for many reasons. First is security. If we don't know who is crossing our border, then we cannot be certain that terrorist are not among those crossing. Secondly, if they are undocumented they may not be paying taxes and yet still reaping benefits that should be going to tax payers. Last but not least, we must secure our borders for our own sovereignty. We are a nation. We have borders. We have laws. These borders and laws must be enforced. (Male)

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	With Trump, though he might fail at speaking like any human can, is out for the good of the people. He is a man that can be trusted and act in a way most would be proud of. Hillary is a wolf in sheep's clothing and cannot be trusted. (Male)

	➢	Immigration is very key to changing the character of the country. If the immigrants aren't educated, and aren't given time to assimilate because there are so many immigrants, we can't support a free nation, which depends on having an educated populace that knows to value liberty and avoid voting for the tyrant. (Female)

2nd Choice

	➢	I would say that we can't afford to spend so much on a building project that will be virtually useless. They should support the same position simply because it's a waste of their money as an actor in the global economy, it puts an unnecessary strain on relations with Latin America, and it will fail to prevent an increase in illegal immigration. (Male)

	➢	A wall like this is a waste of time and taxpayer dollars. We should let them in and let them become citizens. (Male)

	➢	I would remind them first that they are humans just like we are, and so they are trying to better themselves just like we are. I would ask them if they know anyone who works outside in the Georgia heat and humidity picking cotton for ten to twelve hours a day? Because it is the immigrants who take jobs that are dirty and in harsh conditions because they are willing to do whatever it takes to get by and support their families back home. Also, along with them working constantly to provide America with their goods, they also spend money in our economy. They buy groceries and clothes, they go watch movies and but electronics. Most even try to go back to school, or better their English in night schools. Some even open small businesses to try to help go against the big businesses who charge outrageously.

3rd Choice

	➢	I don't really care about this issue but if I had to persuade them this way, I would talk about the biblical precedent for having borders, and for being committed to the laws. (Male)

	➢	You should care about the security of our border for many reasons.  First is security. If we don't know who is crossing our border, then we cannot be certain that terrorist are not among those crossing. Secondly, if they are undocumented they may not be paying taxes and yet still reaping benefits that should be going to tax payers. Last but not least, we must secure our borders for our own sovereignty. We are a nation. We have borders. We have laws. These borders and laws must be enforced. (Male)

Evangelical Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	None of the above.  I picked that silly wall, just to pick one.  I don't care if they build it or not.  The economy is the biggest problem these days!  Not any of this other crap.  

	➢	I selected this issue because it is a concrete idea that is already supported by the Constitution and laws that are intact. I would love to see abortion banned but this and the other issues will require a change in the moral makeup of America. The "wall" is an important issue because it will protect Americans and our sovereignty.

2nd Choice

	➢	we need the wall as soon as possible, to many are getting into our country and we don't know who they are or what they are capable of 

	➢	Living on a border state, I see the direct result of illegal immigration and the instability it creates. 

	➢	It is normal to have boundaries. It is very important to have a screening process before letting people enter the country to help keep it safe. It's about national security more than anything else.

3rd Choice

	➢	In don't necessarily agree with building a wall asnindont think doing so would be feasible I think the wall as it has been described is a solution I do think however that we need to implement a more practical and unified policy to keep undesirables out of the country illegally 

	➢	"This is important because we waste a lot of resources on stopping immigrants from coming into the country and then they are here for another month or longer before they are deported.  Also, with the wall it would make it harder for the drug cartels to get their drugs to the U.S. I think we could cut back on the people who work the borders now."

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	I can't answer this.  I support None of the Above, tho I am leaning toward Trump.  He is no pillar of faith, nor is Hillary.  I would tell my friend if they are looking for a moral leader to go to church.

	➢	I would explain to them why illegal immigration has an impact on all Americans and how a person of faith is instructed by God's word to follow the laws we are given by the government. I would explain how people living in poverty are affected here in America by illegal immigration and that it is important to look out for them and their best interests from a faith based perspective.

2nd Choice

	➢	unless they want themselves and they're family to be in danger my friend would have to see it my way

	➢	Above all we should feel safe in our homes, and the cities closer to the border, are on constant alert, always ready to defend their families and homes against desperate people.  I believe there are better ways to handle immigrants, and totally support them if they are willing to go through the proper procedures to live in this country, but there doesn't seem to be any other way to control the ones that don't.

	➢	We should have a wall to the south and more solid protection to the north because we are bleeding people with evil intentions coming into the country.

3rd Choice

	➢	I've responded to this question twice before so I'm not sure why it keeps prompting me to answer it again.... 

	➢	"I would tell them with the wall it would make it harder for the drug cartels to get their drugs to the U.S. Also, it is important because we waste a lot of resources on stopping immigrants from coming into the country and then they are here for another month or longer before they are deported. I think we could cut back on the people who work the borders now."

Require transgender people to use the bathroom that matches the gender that matches their birth certificate

Catholic Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

2nd Choice

	➢	Transgender is a touchy subject for everyone. The reason it can cause harm is if the transgender person from man to woman doesn't get altered then it can confuse younger girls. And if they see that part it can screw up our children of today and the future, especially if they don't really understand.

	➢	God made people either a girl or a boy and that fact should not be changed. I do not want to be in a restroom and a big burley guy walks in just because he says he is a girl but has boy parts. I never thought the world would come to this as a debate. A girl is a girl if the parts are there and a boy is a boy if the parts are there and use the restroom that fits your parts.

	➢	I chose the transgender issue because this is just getting ridiculous. If you have an outty you use one bathroom and if you have an inny use the other. The fact that some people aren't mentally stable in their gender's identity shouldn't confuse the people who are and start going in to different bathrooms. This really is a basic issue of needing to pee so don't complicate it by incorporating your mental state of another identity. This is a perfect example of how we as a country are trying to make everything equal for everyone and are messing everything up in the process. My biggest complaint is that we are compensating the transgender community because they are the biggest whiners when if anything we should be compensating the physically disabled community, such as the paralyzed who need help in the restrooms or people who have dwarfism or giagantism who have to suffer and sit on an average size toilet.

3rd Choice

	➢	All people have a right to be treated equally and comfortable in their own bodies.

	➢	"I believe a person should use a bathroom that is used by person's with the same genitalia. I wouldn't feel comfortable with my child using a restroom with someone who has different genitalia.

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

2nd Choice

	➢	They should take the same position because they have children and I am sure they don't want their 6-year-old going potty in a public place like an amusement park and a man that became a woman goes in there too. I would think they would get a little confused and possibly see something because kids like to crawl around and look under stalls sometimes. 

	➢	I think that you should support my way of thinking as God made Adam and Eve and Eve one day cannot be Adam and Adam one day cannot be Eve. This is so wrong on so many levels but the government should stay out of this and not change the way things have been since the start of time.

	➢	My friends would totally back my views because I have a lot of mom friends who are in that stage of motherhood where the kids spew questions like fire and can come across as offense. So to have to share a restroom where a transgender walks in and have to explain or feel frightened is not something mothers should have to explain. They would support the idea that inny's and outty's have their own bathrooms for a reason to get the job done and get out and trying to get equality on this issue should just be put to rest. This just opens doors to other ridiculous and potential law suits.

3rd Choice

	➢	Do you make people of different genders use different bathrooms at home?  Do you feel we should strip people to check their sex before they enter a restroom?  Do you really believe that people who are just fighting not to be discriminated against are a threat to you or your children's safety?  Transgendered people are not the ones who will take advantage of these laws.  They should be able to be comfortable doing what all people need to do.  We need to enforce moral and legal choices for those who would take advantage of laws that allow people to satisfy their basic needs where they are comfortable.  We need to not penalize perfectly legal transgendered citizen who have already been discriminated against for far too long.

	➢	One idea to resolve this issue of same sex bathrooms. Would be to make them genitalia bathrooms. If you have male genitalia than you would use a genitalia appropriate bathroom. Same if you had female genitalia. If you are transgender you need to use the bathroom that correlates to your own genitalia. If everyone uses a restroom based on the genitalia they present than the issue would be resolved.

Millennial Evangelicals

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	I wish this wasn't even something I had to think about. These types of people are neurologically unstable and unfit to be a part of society, much less to have a choice of which bathroom to go to. (Male)

2nd Choice

	➢	It just makes sense to me. You cannot reassign the gender you were born with then act and have access to another s area. (Male)

3rd Choice

	➢	This is just dumb to me. If you have a penis, use the men's bathroom. If you have a vagina use the women's. (Female)

	➢	Require transgender people to use the bathroom that matches the gender that matches their birth certificate

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	Transgender people are going against the laws of God at the most basic level. If someone thinks "Oh I know I am a boy but I should be a girl" they are saying God created them wrong. They are utter fools. (Male)

2nd Choice

	➢	I would just not feel comfortable with another gender in the restroom while I am in there. (Male)

3rd Choice

	➢	I completely understand that a person may not identify as a woman or a man even if they were born with those sex organs, but too many people can use this as an excuse to go into the woman's/men's bathroom and harm others. If something truly needs to be done, then stores should have a separate bathroom for transgendered people all together. It can be a one stall, private bathroom. (Female)

	➢	This issue is important to me because I think it should be a non-issue. It had never been an issue before this year (ELECTION YEAR... WHAT A SURPRISE!).

Evangelical Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

2nd Choice

	➢	I’m not anti-Transgender.  Its ok.  But its sending our children mixed messages especially if they have to use restrooms with them. 

	➢	"The reason it is important is to prevent child molestation, or other horrible things that could happen. However, if a person had the complete transformation then I believe they could use the proper restroom since they would truly be that sex, but then and only then."

3rd Choice

	➢	we don't need men who are dressed like woman to use the same restroom as our children. it leaves to much room for our children to be in danger of a sex offender posing as a transgender.

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

2nd Choice

	➢	I think I person of faith would also support this since most people of god don’t agree with the Transgender community 

	➢	I would tell them that there would be a possibility of a guy putting on a dress and some makeup and molesting little girls.  Another thing they could do is be a peeping tom.  Would you want that happening in a public restroom?

3rd Choice

	➢	I would tell them that unless they want they're child to be in danger they should follow my belief.

The United States should temporarily ban all Muslim immigrants from entering the country as a security precaution and should increase surveillance of Muslims at mosques.

Catholic Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

2nd Choice

	➢	All people need to be treated respectfully and no judged just based on their religion or background.

	➢	I think that Muslim terrorists are using the mosques to hide behind while planning attacks

	➢	I think until the vetting system is more accurate, that we need to ban temporarily Muslim immigrants.  Who does the vetting?  The Federal government/FBI.  A federal process which should be better executed.  

	➢	I don't think ISIS would choose people that have any kind of questionable behavior in the past to come to the US. Therefore, what would government watch for when deciding whether to allow certain Muslims in? Too hard to try to pick through who is accepted or not. I don't think any should be allowed.

	➢	After the recent events I feel that we should be more concerned about who is entering our country.  I am not saying ban all Muslim immigrants but a very thorough investigation should be conducted before they come into the country.

3rd Choice

	➢	"I don’t like to place judgement on all Muslims. But they need to be screened more. Because of all the attacks lately "

	➢	"In light of current events, I would say that they all have a heavy emphasis in the political climate today. With ISIS the way it is I cannot value the extreme religious freedom. Providing increased surveillance at mosques is maybe not effective and may promote. Political unrest...."

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

2nd Choice

	➢	Banning all Muslims is little different than shipping all Jews to concentration camps.  This is a slippery road to walk down and is NOT one America should be contemplating.

	➢	I think that Muslim terrorists are using the mosques to hide behind while planning attacks.  keeping an eye on them will let us know if there is a plot being planned so we can stop it ahead of time

	➢	I think until the vetting system is more accurate, that we need to ban temporarily Muslim immigrants.  Who does the vetting?  The Federal government/FBI.  A federal process which should be better executed.  One our beliefs is freedom of religion, but even when immigrants came into Ellis Island, there was a process in place even then.  Was it perfect?  No.  But back then there was no such thing as political correctness, and I think in the long run, most people are good, and weeding out the few who can destroy many is an issue that shouldn't be based on whether we look good or not. 

	➢	I would tell them better to be safe than sorry, and don't ask for trouble. Ban immigration from any groups that cause worry.

	➢	I know this seems like a harsh stance but due to the recent bombings I am very scared.  I know all our ancestors have come from other countries but the times and culture were different at that time.  We must protect our citizens and if we have to take a step that is unpopular then so be it.  Maybe in time this could change but I think it is very important now.

3rd Choice

	➢	I would tell them that maybe our country would be safer because of the attacks that have been led by Muslims 

	➢	I am conflicted. Could not really defend any of them the way the sentence reads....

Millennial Evangelicals

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	This issue is most important to me because I see it as extremely dangerous and a serious violation of civil liberties. If the President of the United States can single out and survey a particular group of people, by logical extension I don't think any other minority group is safe if the President happens to dislike them. I don't even think this will do much to help reduce the instances of terror attacks, because most perpetrators of attacks in recent years have been natural-born Americans who were radicalized over social media, not within Mosques. (Male)

3rd Choice

	➢	Immigration generally is a topic that should be discussed.  In its current state, many ways to abuse the system exist that allow those with malicious intent to enter the country unchecked and wreak havoc on us.  This should be temporarily stopped, to include all forms of immigration, not just Muslim, to ensure that our process is overhauled to ensure the safety of citizens first. (Male)

	➢	I "opposed" this, but felt it was an important issue much for the same reason as the previous. This is America, the land of the free. It is not necessarily "free" if we choose to ban a particular person based off of his or her religion. (Male)

	➢	I understand not painting an entire group with the same brush, but criminals lie, and people need to earn trust before it is given, especially in this day and age. (Male)

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	In short, I would say this is classic fear-mongering and a perfect example of trying to provide safety for the American public, while both failing to fix the problem it seeks to solve and trampling on individual liberties. I would say they would do well to support my position because it may one day be them who is being discriminated against if we allow policies like this. (Male)

3rd Choice

	➢	The United States has gained a reputation as a place that is wide open, that is welcoming to all, and should openly embrace people from everywhere.  While this should be true, there unstated requirement should be that adoption of a new home land should necessitate an adoption of customs of that place. (Male)

	➢	Again, I opposed this issue, but it is getting a lot of play in the media. You should oppose this issue because we are singling out a particular religion and preventing them from coming to the United States based off of fear. Why not just practice due diligence, do our homework, and prevent the extremists from visiting? (Male)

	➢	I understand not painting an entire group with the same brush, but criminals lie, and people need to earn trust before it is given, especially in this day and age. Be tolerant of religious difference, but stay safe. (Male)

Evangelical Women

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most important?  

1st Choice

	➢	Because of all the terror activities going on in the world. With IsIs being so strong we need to protect our boarders. 

	➢	we have to stop all immigrants from coming into this country until we can figure out how to screen them the right way. to many are slipping through and no one follows up on them.

	➢	The Muslim religion is based on an evil leader who married and had sex with a little girl, which already shows a distorted notion of what is right. It is based on evil and killing the infidels. Many are taught and raised hate us. A careful screening process should be in effect. I married a man from the Philippines in the 1970s and we had to go through hell and back to get him in the US even though I was in the military. that's a good thing. Let's go back to that. It's sort of natural and perpetuates security of our nation.

	➢	I’m not against Muslims nor do I think all are evil.  And terrorist but we need to figure out that protects us.

	➢	I don't believe the majority of Muslims are terrorists and believe they are victims of the world they were born into. I think the USA should not ban them as that is not the Christian way to treat others. We should want to help them as Christ taught us.

2nd Choice

	➢	Again, this is not an issue to me.  I hate that this survey is manipulating me into choosing one of them.  Be fair.  The second issue is the climate.  We need to take care of the Earth or there won't be any bathrooms to have a hissy fit over.  Let's stop trying to legislate morality and concentrate on the important stuff, shall we?  This petty stuff listed above is exactly, precisely what the Republican party is in shambles.  They want to focus on who is going to what bathroom instead of what people care about.

	➢	Our most recent terrorist events on American soil are perpetrated by Self-proclaimed Islamic terrorists, whether individual or as a group, the connection to Islam and its radical elements is undeniable.

	➢	I don't think that it is right to profile or single out all people of a certain religion because of some fanatics. I think that banning people of a certain faith to come into the country is useless because they will find a way to get into the country, if they really want to. 

	➢	Actually truth be told I feel a little guilty checking this position. But if I had to pick a second choice this was the one is choose. I think perhaps the statement as written is a by extreme and far reaching but I also beloved the essence of it should be explored. The truth is our system of ferreting out three types of dangerous individuals is fragmented and in some respects almost impossible to predict or stop. We need to have a stricter more comprehensive process to retain the rights and freedoms of good law abiding museum immigrants but also put in place a scrutiny that might save lives from " terrorist" promoting the agenda of radical Islamic groups and idealology 

	➢	I don't think that all Muslims should be temporarily banned nor do I think there should be surveillance at mosques.  However, I do think that Islamic terrorism is a real threat that needs to be addressed.  Our current president refuses to use this term, but the terrorists themselves own it proudly.  

	➢	I feel our current administration has not done a good job vetting those who are immigrating from Muslim countries and policies need to be in place before we allow more potential terrorists to enter our country.

3rd Choice

	➢	It's most important to me to feel safe in my home.  

	➢	While no one wants ISIS and other terrorists to gain easy access to the US, we must not assume all Muslims are bad. This country was founded on immigrants and needs to stay open.

	➢	I try to respect all other beliefs but Muslim extremist are not safe. They want to kill all who don't believe their way.

Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

1st Choice

	➢	"We need to protect our right to have free pray. We should have prayer in school. We grew up with it.  Wouldn't it be nice to not worry about someone telling us we don't have to worry about seeing a person that is Muslim in our airplane sitting next to us? "

	➢	because if they don't support the same position as me the United States as we know it will be no longer. we are going under fast and need someone with some guts to stand up for us 

	➢	They should support the same position as I do because as my friend, they probably share similar values or we probably wouldn't be friends. Hey pal, if you choose Hillary that is entirely your choice and I will still love you. But before you choose, please do your detailed homework on who she is and the lies she tells, coupled with her infinite connections into a world of corruption so deep neither you nor I could ever fathom it.

	➢	I’d say trump shouldn't get ur vote do to his hateful, racist antics. He gets backing from hate groups.  He is just vile. I have a hard time thinking a person of faith would support hate.  

	➢	I believe Christ would want us to welcome those who are in need of our help, not turn them away. I think this should be opposed and we as a people should treat others how we'd want to be treated if we were in this position. Many of these people are coming from horrific circumstances and could learn all about Christ's teachings thru how we treat them.

2nd Choice

	➢	I would tell them to pick who they wish, or not at all.  If they want to follow someone, they should follow Jesus's example in the Bible.  His kingdom is no part of this world, so let's try to stop injecting irrelevant religion into politics.

	➢	Too many terrorist events worldwide and on American soil are currently committed by Islamic believers. We are foolish not to recognize this and at least be aware of the risk every time one enters our country in this climate. Additionally, Islamic radicals do not care about human life as we do. They do not even value their own life as we do, so the risk of suicide bombers is much higher in the Islamic culture as I see it. Until we can figure out how to protect our people already here legitimately, we need to restrict temporarily. Knowing how anti-Islam America is in some ways, I wonder why a Muslim person would even want to be here, instead of in a Muslim run country that already understands their cultural and religious beliefs, so it makes me automatically suspicious of a Muslim just now deciding to come here.

	➢	I think that we should judge individual's merits, just as God judges us individually. 

	➢	Okay I'm pretty sure I answer this previously unless somehow I didn't save it properly .... Okay to repeat what I stated before ...I think supporting a persons or candidate of faith is desirable because embracing faith odds you a moral compass and an anchor of sorts to weather any storm ... I respect and trust s person of faith 

	➢	"I think Islamic terrorism is a real and growing threat, and one that can't be ignored for much longer. We need to talk about this hard issue head on so we can face it together as a nation.  

	➢	I would explain to my friend that while we as Christians need to reach out to the Muslim community we must also recognize the vast majority of terrorist violence taking place around the globe is being carried out in relation to the Islam religion. I would explain it is important to uphold the Christian values and ideas our country was founded on and to make sure the federal government has carefully vetted all immigrants and refugees to ensure they have no terrorist background.

3rd Choice

	➢	There is so much unrest all over the world, each time a terrorist act happens, it was someone that was given the benefit of the doubt and didn't really deserve it.  We should be on high alert, not allow ourselves to be looking the other way when someone wants to hurt us.  Maybe if it's more difficult for these people to come into a country and create mayhem, it won't happen as often.

	➢	We can't let fear dictate our actions because that plays right into the hands of terrorists. If we say we have faith, we must show that faith and treat people kindly.

	➢	Keeping our country safe is very important. The Muslim extremist will admit to wanting all non-Muslims dead. We would be foolish to overlook this threat. If they want to practice their belief PEACEFULLY in our country ... Great. But new people coming in or the radicals already here should be watched. Freedom of religion should work for all not just some.

Day 1 Homework

Last time we were together we asked you to have a conversation with someone you know who is a person of faith about the tone of the presidential election, and how their faith guides them or doesn’t in their decision about the candidate they will support.    Who did you have a conversation with? How did they see the tone of the presidential election? Did your faith or the faith of the other person in your conversation play a role in what you discussed?  In what way?  


Catholic Women

	➢	I spoke to my friend Jeff.  He agreed with me that there is way too much mudslinging and not enough focusing on things that would actually affect our country.  Our faith wasn't really a factor in the conversation. [Why do you and Jeff believe faith would not guide an individual to support or not support a candidate?] I think most people want to hear about what the candidates will try to do to make our lives better

	➢	I spoke to my sister in Florida. And this was her response. The tone of the election is ridiculous!! The serious nature that should guide the election does not. As far as faith guiding my decision not sure if I'd call it that as much as I would my gut or instinct. At this point in time I have not decided who to vote for because frankly I'm not comfortable with the shenanigans of all of them. I think it's a mockery and it's a true shame that this is where we are heading. [Hello, thank you for speaking to your sister. Could you elaborate on your comment about gut and instinct as your guide for which candidate to support? I am curious, thank you.] This is my sisters view as the election continues I continue to become more annoyed and flip flop between my choice in candidates... I believe it is more of my gut instinct that will guide my final decisions...in other words what at the moment in time seems the best decision... I don't know some may call that relying on their "faith" I guess... Or "beliefs" ... It will be an informed decision but one I just can't make at this point in time.  

	➢	I talked with my cousin on Tuesday. She says it is very difficult to keep up with all the news that happens. She said it seems there is something new every day. She says she is not happy with either candidate. She is very religious and says she does not see either candidate as a person of faith. She wants the President to have a good relationship with God to help that person make decisions. She and I are of similar faith backgrounds. [I understand if you cannot answer this, but why does your cousin not believe either candidate is a person of faith? What is her definition of faith? Why does she believe the President should have a good relationship with God and what would that look like? Of course, if you have answers of your own to these questions, I welcome them. Thank you.]  I would say my Cousin's definition of a person of faith is someone who references the Bible at times. Also, she believes he or she should be at church at minimum once per week. She believes a President should have a good relationship with God because it says a lot about their character. That they really take seriously the values of God. They care about others more than someone who does not have a relationship with God. I know she and I think the Presidential candidates need to be talking about God in their speeches. We discussed this one day that neither one mentions God or his or her faith very often. I believe faith is when you do the best you can, do what is right for others and believe and pray that everything will be ok. I believe the President should have a good relationship with God because if they don't believe in something they will fall for anything.


	➢	I had a conversation with 2 ladies from my church when we were doing our weekly volunteer work at the food bank. All 3 of us agreed that the tone for this presidential election was acidic and pathetic, and did not represent the views of all of America. While faith is important for a candidate to have, we all agreed that it would not be the one final decision factor to support a candidate. There are too many important issues in this country, that need decisions made, and a candidate needs to have more than just a faith quality. The reason being that a President has to have the capacity to make very tough judgement calls, and while he may be able to rely on his faith to make those decisions, he needs to also have leadership and compassion to make really tough decisions that may be out of his faith comfort zone.

	➢	I had a discussion with my neighbor who is also a stay at home mother. She is along the same lines as myself that whoever wins this election isn't going to be the best fit in regards to fixing the country because they both portray some scary elements at times. She told me that she plans on voting for the third party candidate like her husband. I tried to explain to her that that candidate doesn't stand a chance against the electoral college and voting for him would be essentially voting for Hillary, who we both agree is the worst of both candidates. I don't think I was able to persuade her vote though. Since we belong to the same faith it really didn't play a role in our conversation since we agree on the mainstream issues such as abortion, the Mexican Wall and the transgender issue. [I understand both your positions on the candidates, but if the candidates were to have the same views on the issues you stated, but did not necessarily share the same faith or religion as you, how would that play into who you support?] Oh, sorry! As long as the candidate has the same views as I mentioned neither myself or my neighbor would have an issue with their faith/religion. I feel my issues correlate with faith so I'd be assuming that the candidate would belong to the same faith if not at least believe in the same God. But if they did believe in a different God and support my causes besides being strange I wouldn't judge them for practicing freely because it would just be a contradiction of my own belief.

	➢	My conversation was with my husband whose faith and political views are similar to mine.  He didn't seem to be quite as offended by the tone of the election as I have been.  The fact that the two major parties are almost polar opposites on their views breeds contempt.  My husband feels like the civil disrespect we have seen is normal at this point in an election.  One point he did make was that the bullying and name calling wasn't necessary.  He and I totally agree on this point. Faith did not play a factor in our discussion, per se.  We did discuss whether excluding/targeting select groups would be the Christian thing to do and agreed that it would not be.  However, both agreed that there has to be a vetting process to protect our country from those who would do us harm.  Making a blanket statement to exclude a specific ethnic group from entering our country is stereotyping and a few bad apples don't ruin the whole basket. [Why do you believe your husband has not been as offended by the tone of the election compared to you? I understand you and your husband's position on immigration and if a candidate made drastic measures on immigration, such as Trump, and it made the country safer would you still consider that candidate Christian or not?] My husband feels like our country needs to address some key issues and that calm discussions haven't produced results.  He feels like we need to get mad at this point in order for change to happen and Trump is definitely mad.    Personally, I try not to mix religion and politics.  There are men/women who don't consider themselves Christian but they are good people and strive for a safe, prosperous country.  I have many non-Christian friends who I love and trust.  Some have differing political views but some have the same.  The key is that we can discuss our commonalities as well as our differences in a civil manner and still remain friends.    As far as considering one a Christian if they result to drastic measures to stop or slow immigration, I am reminded of the old WWJD acronym.  What would Jesus do?  Would he turn away those in greatest need?  I don't think so.  However, one must be able to discern truth from those who would manipulate.  I am a Christian but I am not voting for a candidate because of their religion or their faith.  I am voting for the candidate who will get our country back on track and grow our economy.  I'm voting for the candidate who will lay the groundwork for my grandchildren.  I don't believe Donald Trump or Hilary Clinton will be the one to accomplish these tasks.   

	➢	I had this conversation with my mother, who is Catholic. She sees the tone of the election negative and unruly. The discussion did involve the idea of faith. We discussed how both candidates are really not the best for the job overall, and for her, her faith and what her values are and beliefs are, are causing her to not want to even vote in the election. She doesn't feel like her vote would make a difference because they are both bad candidates in the first place. She feels that Hillary is way too far one way and Trump is way to uncensored. The discussion focused on more why she didn't like the candidates and how it has gotten so worse over the years with all the crap they pull. She said she just wishes that there would be elections without all the crap and mudslinging between candidates and false promises or loud mouths. It then led to a discussion between the both of us discussing how even local politics is corrupt and that all the corruption in the world and the US in general from local to presidency is all corrupt and people get bought out. She then commented on Hillary's emails and that the FBI decided not to prosecute. She thought that was ridiculous because of morality, which I agreed. [I understand your mother's position, and I am curious as to why she believes it is ridiculous that Clinton was not prosecuted by the FBI based on morality? If a candidate had high morals, but not necessarily the same faith/beliefs/religion as your mother, do you believe she would be willing to vote? What would inspire your mother to participate in voting in the election?] She thinks that anyone else would have been prosecuted but she was a First Lady and is now candidate so they are protecting her perhaps. If they had high morals yes. Even if they disagreed on some things. High morals are important. She said a candidate with high morals because she doesn't see any right now.  

	➢	I spoke with my husband and he and I see eye to eye with this whole campaign/election. He believes Mr. Trump has been very uncivil throughout, lots of name calling, lies and being downright mean. He also said that he found Mrs. Clinton's campaign to be very arrogant, anyone who disagrees with her on an issue must be an idiot. My husband also does not plan to vote for either Mr. Trump or Mrs. Clinton. Our faith didn't play a huge roll in this particular conversation. Though I know our faith has led us to believe we cannot support either candidate from a moral standpoint. Just today my husband quoted C.S. Lewis (Mere Christianity) in reference to being unable to support either candidate. "I feel a strong desire to tell you--and I expect you feel a strong desire to tell me--which of these two errors is the worse. That is the devil getting at us. He always sends errors into the world in pairs--pairs of opposites. And he always encourages us to spend a lot of time thinking about which is the worse. You see why, of course? He relies on your extra dislike of the one error to draw you gradually into the opposite one. But do not let us be fooled. We have to keep our eyes on the goal and go straight through between both errors. We have no other concern than that with either of them."

	➢	I had a conversation with my boyfriend.  The election frightens them.  They feel that this is another case of choosing the better of two evils.  They feel that neither of the candidates is honest or has the interests of America at heart.  Both candidates seem snide and looking to get the biggest reactions out of their statements rather than actually contribute possible solutions or political ideas.  I asked him about how his faith came into consideration and he mentioned that if he had to pick one he would vote for Hillary because Trump's extremism and seeming belief that he should control everyone's choices for the good of white people who believe they should control everything is terrifying.  But he did mention that Hillary's actions and words do not exactly show her as a compassionate candidate who understands what is it to be an average American citizen either.

	➢	I spoke to my neighbor who is very religious.  She said she was very concerned about the election.  She feels Donald Trump is not a Christian and said she would only vote for a Christian.  Her family is very hard core.  I told her that I felt that the country has more important things to worry about than if a candidate is a Christian.  I said there are good and bad in all religions and good and bad in people who do not have any religious beliefs.  She started quoting the bible so I was done.  You cannot have a debate with some people who have such strong beliefs.

	➢	I had a conversation with a man I know. He is very intelligent and has been following the election closely. He said he was very disappointed in the tone of the campaign because there is so much insulting going on back and forth between the candidates rather than more concern about the country and the issues being the main focus. His response to religion playing a role was "we are one nation under God." I don't believe he is very religious and I am not myself.

	➢	Conversation with my sister in law. She views the tone of election as part of the way of society is becoming more ugly///more hateful with disagreement. Less kindness. Her faith reflects her choice; democratic party appears more obligated to fellow man. (Hillary is not her first choice, but essentially her only choice now).

	➢	I had a conversation with my husband.  He saw the tone of the campaign as being combative, cantankerous and petty. We both believe that faith had nothing to do with the views that both of us hold. We both think that the candidates should be discussing policy in civil manner and that the issue of religion has taken a back seat. Issues like abortion, gay rights and the family seem to put on the back burner.  What is on the forefront is immigration, terrorism and jobs. These are major issues that I want addressed but at the same time I also want equal rights for the lgbtq communities and the right of a woman to make decisions about her own body. Perhaps we feel that the conversations among the candidates have not been appropriate at times because we both possess a value system that frowns upon the lack of decorum between the leading contenders. [What would you and your husband need to hear or relate to from the candidates to feel they possess the value system you believe they are lacking? I understand you believe specific issues of religion have taken a back seat, why is that? How do you see a way to bring this issues forward and have conversations about them in a way that possess the value system you mentioned?] First of all, I would like the most recent announcements involving Hillary Clinton 's issues with her email fraud to be addressed directly by her.  She has not responded to the justice' dept's findings. As of yesterday the state dept is reopening the case. I distrust her even though I find her to be the more professionally presenting & diplomatic candidate. I need to hear her relate to the American public on the issue of honesty, scruples and disclosure.  Even if she apologized and admitted a mistake and moved on from there that would more reassuring to me. She may have addressed this in such a long drawn out saga of dealing with this issue but I feel she needs to settle the issue perhaps in a 1-1 interview with a news person or religious leader. I just find that there is an aura of deception and 'back door deals' that surround both her husband and her.  Frankly, there are aspects of Bill Clinton that I admire. He is a charismatic individual that did a lot of good for our country despite his private downfalls.  As for Trump, I think that he needs to speak more about his faith as a man and how this will help him lead our country into change. I think that he needs to explain his value system if he has one and how he will make our nation greater through policies that he will make. I believe that he needs to speak more about he has raised his family, built a business and cares about people in a more practical, gentler tone that makes sense to those who are unsure of voting for him. I think we need to see another side of him to reassure us that he can handle criticism, major decisions and diplomacy.  Religious related issues are secondary to me at this point.  Economic/job related issues, national security/terrorism handling, immigration reform along with proper handling of human rites and health care are paramount to me. Secondary are issues that relate to pro-choice/pro-life decisions, lgtbq rites, stem cell research, etc.  These certainly are human issues that need to be discussed and clarified so I would like to hear his stand on these things perhaps in a 1-1 interview too. Politicians flip flop on so many things and I understand that people can change their views as they learn more about a topic. I think I would like a civil discussion that is held in a professional manner allowing each to voice their opinions without tearing each other apart and that is why I think such interviews should be done separately.  

	➢	I talked to my neighbor and we had a very good long talk about the election and how she has chosen not to vote in the upcoming election. My friend Alice thinks that neither candidate has a "good moral compass" and that she thinks both are as far from being religious as one can get. I have to admit neither one of us knew what religion either candidate belongs to. We both agreed that Trump is to much of a wild card and we do not like to watch or listen to what he has to say because of his foul mouth or as she says "potty mouth" and we both agreed that Hilary is running a cleaner campaign. We both like the stance that Trump has on abortion but were not sure what else he stands for. It was an interesting conversation but we both are glad that religion has not muddied the water of this already strange election. [I understand you both believe that religion has not muddied the water in this election, and I wish to ask why you both believe this? Using your term, what issues have muddied the water among candidates?] Both candidates do not speak about religion much or at all from what both my neighbor and I have seen or heard but I have not been keeping up much on the campaign the last couple of weeks. Both my neighbor and I feel that both candidates do their fair share of name calling and bring up negative issues like Clinton and her emails and not being charged and Trump and his investment school or Trump not showing his tax returns or Clinton and Benghazi. Doesn't seem like either candidate talks about the family unit, moral values and how they would stop the killing of each other.  

	➢	I had a conversation with a friend.  He said he sees the tone as negative. His faith played a small role in Church and state issues.  He felt the government is trying to eradicate Christianity. [I understand your friend believes the government is trying to eradicate Christianity. May I ask what his reasons are for believing this? How does he feel the candidates contribute to this belief?] He said, they are trying to neutralize all religious beliefs/holidays.  He gave the example of not being "PC" to say Merry Christmas.  That is offensive to some people.  He said our country was founded on Christianity and we should keep it that way.  He said, he feels Trump is trying to keep Christ in Christmas.  He said, Clinton will probably try to appease the masses with political correctness and keep it neutral by saying Happy Holidays.

	➢	I had a conversation with my Mother. She feels the tone of the election is pretty fair. She thinks Trumps ideals are pretty racist and harsh but feels most of America wants drastic change. My Mom and I believe in having equality and that everyone deserves a chance to live with the right to do what is morally best. She feels our nation has started to lose sight of what is best for us as a nation and that we need to start looking at a bigger picture.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	I had a discussion with my partner. She saw the tone us uncivil and hate filled. Faith did play a small role in the fact that she believes regardless of religion we should not spread hate and anger and should embrace others not cause separation. (Male)

	➢	I had a conversation with an associate pastor at my church, how I had known for many years.  I knew that we had similar viewpoints, and despite that, he had a well-known history of being open-minded. That being said, in his politically active life (some 15 years more than me), this is the first election cycle in a long time that he was actually worried about.  With fiery rhetoric and mass public protests and rioting, he said that this time in our country's history will be one of the most volatile on record. Being members of the same church, we discussed the matter in a faith-based context.  We were both in agreement that a sort of divine intervention will need to take place to keep the country from falling into chaos.  I tend to take a more direct approach to daily living, where he more strongly believes that God plays an ongoing and active daily role in the lives of humanity.  While I tend to believe that the United States will be allowed to fall into an unrecognizable state, he tends to think that something will happen that will cause a resurgence of religious activity in the country, "righting the ship," so to speak.  I hope he is right. [If you can, could you elaborate on what you both mean of a "divine intervention?" What would that look like? I understand you both have opposing looks on the country, but what makes you believe the country will fall into an "unrecognizable state?"] Sure!  What I understood was that the "divine intervention" that he spoke about would be an event that could have no other explanation other than the hand of God.  I am scared to think of how this may manifest, but I am hoping that this will be for the good of our country.    I think that, up to this point, how he and I view the history of the United States would have been fairly congruent, albeit that his life experience may have shaped his opinion more than my academic view of the relative past.  My biggest concern is that neither of the candidates that are up for election this cycle have the favor of any big part of the populace, and so despite who wins, and by how much, there is going to be an uprising that will create massive civil unrest.  This could fundamentally change the social structure in the US.  I think this, and the avoidance of it, is where the pastor is going to be looking for the "divine intervention" that he was speaking about. (Male)

	➢	I had a conversation last night with my boyfriend, Jamie. Him and I share a similar view on the presidential election. We view it as manipulative and a joke. Neither of us are fans of Trump or Hillary, but if given the choice we both agreed Hillary would be a better choice out of the two. Faith played a minor role in our discussion, mostly because we both believe the president should be about the countries needs not for the needs of a certain faith. We also agreed that along with our faith it is said to treat people with respect and decency, to love your fellow man, and to not cast stones. (Female)

	➢	I had this conversation with my mother, and she saw the tone of the presidential election as a mud-slinging contest "as it always is". My mother is religious as well, so we were able to talk about faith in the election. She said she would very much prefer a candidate who possesses Christian morals and has a track record of doing so (as opposed to just saying they attend church, for example). [What kind of track record would your mother need to see or hear to feel that an individual possesses Christian morals? What if the candidate was not of Christian faith?] She would need to see that he or she has voted with Christian values (if any political experience), such as pro-life, etc. If the candidate was not of a Christian faith, my mother would have a difficult time voting for him or her. (Male)

	➢	I actually talked with my boyfriend. It was interesting, because it was something that we had never talked about before. He thinks that the tone of the election is interesting, but not in the least bit civil. Our faith did not play a role, but only because we were looking at the big Picture. Both candidates are doing inexcusable things, but at least Trump is out in the open about it. We talked about the fact that religious groups are being attacked, and we both took the stance that something needs to be done about it. No matter who wins. (Female)

	➢	I had a conversation with my wife. She views the tone of the presidential election as very negative. She feels like the candidates are more concerned about tearing one another down rather than talking positively about themselves and their policies. The faith of my wife did play a role in the conversation. She wants a President whose moral values align more with her faith. She is more concerned about integrity though than the actual faith of the person. (Male)

	➢	I had a conversation with a male friend of mine that I attended seminary with. He is conservative, but not partisan by any means. I think he's an Independent. I don't think he's registered with any party. Anyway, he sees the tone of the presidential election as rude and cutthroat, probably more so than ever. He thinks that both Trump and Clinton are uncivil. He was especially horrified by Trump's attitude towards Muslims. He clearly identified Trump as the more uncivil candidate (I agreed). I think faith played a role largely in the sense that our faith is what guides our moral outlook on life and on situations such as this. We talked about that being about it in terms of how faith affects our political decisions though. (Female)

	➢	I had a conversation with my 93-year-old grandmother regarding the presidential election. She is a devout Christian, although at times her beliefs descent from what other Christians may view as the correct answer. My grandmother views the tone of the election as somewhat of a circus; she notes that either side is guilty of mudslinging, and that both sides play dirty and take cheap shots at one another. Faith plays a part in her decisions, insofar as she believes that we are all God's children; we shouldn't necessarily be judged in terms of our religion or race, but at the same time, she understands the desire for wanting to keep the nation safe from extremist individuals. (Male)

	➢	I had a conversation with a good friend of mine, Wendy. She is in her 50's and is of course a person of faith. She seemed to feel that the tone of the election is about the same as any other election in the past. She said that all the personal attacks and controversial topics present is what one should expect any election year. To me she seemed to think nothing wrong with the tone of the election but, to be fair, she does not follow the campaigns very closely nor does she watch tv. All she is basing her stance on is articles read online and conversations with her friends and family. I personally did not think that my faith or her played too big of a role in the whole conversation but, I did directly ask her if her faith had any say in how she felt about this election. She stated only that her faith in God has shown her that voting for Donald Trump is "the right thing to do". I am really not sure why she is basing it on not too many facts and just feeling but, that's what she said. (Male)

	➢	I spoke with my mother about this topic. She sees the tone of the campaigns having a sense of urgency or desperation. When asked about the civility of the campaigns, she responded in saying that "no, it has not been civil. But then again, in all my years I've never seen a civil campaign. They are always hostile". Haha almost every conversation I ever have with my mother is affected by our faith. As important as faith is to me in politics it is even more important to her. She is convinced that Hilary is a terrible person, and believes that anyone is better than her. Although she doesn't love Trump in every way, she believes that he is at least a man of faith, and thus will be voting for him. (Male)

	➢	I had my conversation with my father, who is an Evangelical Christian. He stated that he thought the tone of the election was negative overall. My father supports Trump over Clinton, but he expressed a definite distaste for Trump's loudmouthed antics. When asked about the level of influence that his faith has over his decision-making process, he stated that the only area that he feels that his faith influences him is the issue of abortion. He did say, however, that he feels that stopping abortion from occurring is a losing battle, and therefore it doesn't carry much weight in his choosing a candidate. He said that what's most important to him in choosing a candidate is whether the individual will likely uphold the Constitution, and that his faith does not influence this notion very much. (Male)

	➢	I had the conversation with my mom. She shared that the tone of the presidential election was like the candidates were always one-upping each other, like the tone was implying that it’s a popularity contest. She furthermore conceded that when she was a young adult the campaigns had their fair share of mudslinging. But this presidential election has had an unprecedented social media eruption of chaos and negativity. Faith had an afterthought appeal, kind of "Oh and by the way, I wish my faith and morals were being represented. The president needs to be a strong moral leader and that just isn't happening." [I understand your mother's reflection of past and present elections and appreciate her insights. I am curious as what you mother believes represents a strong moral leader?] I understand my mother's beliefs according to Christian biblical teachings that a person of strong character will be above reproach, that a strong moral leader will be careful and intentional in their behavior so that their lifestyle reflects their convictions, and that if they falter they are humble enough to admit their mistakes and seek wise counsel. (Female)

	➢	I spoke with Megan Moore, my coworker. She has a similar viewpoint to mine to politics in general. We have different faith but she also sees how many politicians are not very civil, especially Donald Trump. She expressed her feelings against him and how she dislikes his way of living life. She said faith is irrelevant for politicians because it is just a front that they put on. She doesn't believe that they can have true faith. I was incredibly surprised to hear her response and how similar it was to mine. I felt encouraged as my opinions are often unique. [I understand Megan's position, and I am curious to understand what you mean by having true faith? If you both believe that a candidate cannot have true faith, what guides your decision about who to support? How does the candidate's religion affect your decision?] I can't remember her exact words but I remember she said politics and faith can't go together or be used to influence each other. Basically her faith is completely separate from politics and she does not use it as a judgement criterion. I agree because they cannot have "true faith": James 2:14-19 What good is it, my brothers and sisters, if someone claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can such faith save them? Suppose a brother or a sister is without clothes and daily food. If one of you says to them, “Go in peace; keep warm and well fed,” but does nothing about their physical needs, what good is it? In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. But someone will say, “You have faith; I have deeds.” Show me your faith without deeds, and I will show you my faith by my deeds. You believe that there is one God. Good! Even the demons believe that—and shudder. Faith of the candidate does not affect our decisions because these candidates seem to me like the demons here, only believing in one God but not having any deeds. This verse was selected by me but I would imagine Megan agreeing. The only way that faith would affect our decision is if the candidate actually had faith, which I have never seen or can imagine seeing in the future. The one that came closest was probably Ronald Reagan but at the same time his faith was in a church not God. The church he attended (Catholic church) has numerous church leaders that molest little children as if it is nothing.  Our decisions are guided by logic and understanding of the governmental system as a whole. We choose a candidate based upon how much they might benefit our families with their political decisions. It may be important to mention that we both work at a law firm. We are both dissatisfied with the current candidates, as well as those who took part in the primaries. (Male)

	➢	I had a conversation with my younger brother who will be a freshman in high school this coming year. He said in his friend group and the little he sees on the news he thinks there is a generally negative tone from both parties in all assets of the election. In his eyes he felt like most of it almost seemed like a joke. He is obviously a little younger than myself, but from a faith standpoint he basically said, "I don't think either of them have much real faith, so I would probably pick the lesser of two evils and vote for Trump if I were old enough." Obviously we come from the same household, but I was still intrigued at how similar our thoughts were on the issue. (Male)

	➢	I had the conversation with my friend Chris who is a person of strong faith. He believed the tone of the campaign to be hostile. He felt Donald Trump's tone was very combative and Clinton's tone comes across to him as corrupt and dishonest. He expressed to me that while he is a person of faith, he does not feel the president absolutely has to be. He indicated that as long as they are honest and true to their beliefs, he would trust them. [I understand Chris' position that the president does not have to be a person of faith. Does this also apply to the religion the president practices?] I think it doesn't. I think the president can have a religious practice and keep it separate from the presidency.  (Female)

	➢	I spoke with my husband. He thinks this presidential election is a joke. Faith was very much a large part of the discussion. We are both scared for what the future holds for us to be able to go to church a worship a practice our Christian values in the open. (Female)

	➢	I chose to talk to my best friend Jessica. She is a Lutheran just like me and attends church about once a month, but grew up going almost every weekend. However, she is incredibly liberal in her beliefs which isn't always the case with Christians. Her husband owns a gun shop so that leads her to be a bit conservative in certain areas. She basically thinks that Trump is a complete jerk and that Clinton would make a much better president. She agreed, though, that she would rather have neither of them become president. Faith played much less of a role in her opinions than I thought it would. She really doesn't even take that into consideration when voting. As stated above, she's almost completely liberal. [I understand Jessica's position; did she go into further detail as to why would not want Clinton as president even though she believes Clinton to be the better choice? What made you think that Jessica would let faith play a larger role in her opinions? Why do you believe there is a correlation between being liberal and how much someone lets faith factor into their opinion?] She didn't go into much detail about Clinton. I'm used to hearing from pretty much everyone I know that neither of the candidates are ideal so I didn't really ask why not considering I'm just so adapted to hearing that now. Strong liberals like Jess tend to take pro-abortion and pro-gay marriage to an extreme. While I support both of those to a certain extent it definitely does conflict with what we are taught in the Bible. That's the biggest reason I usually associate faith with being more conservative. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	I talked to my mother and she has similar doubts about our candidates. She believes Trump would be far better then Clinton because of some prophecies she has heard. I do believe God can use anyone. She gets so mad listening to Hillary lie her way out of trouble. She sees the tone as very hostile. Faith has to guide our decisions as Christians it's our duty to try to support people who can make the world better. [I understand your mother's position, but could you elaborate on the prophecies she has heard?] My mother reads things from the Elijah list online. This is a link from a prophecy that they had on their site for a while. https://www.bing.com/videos/search?q=2016+presidential+prophecies&&view=detail&mid=B91B0FCF1D430A3EA945B91B0FCF1D430A3EA945&rvsmid=CA1884FA25CA5D0EDC32CA1884FA25CA5D0EDC32&fsscr=-3960&FORM=VDFSRV 

	➢	My husband Rob. He sees the tone just about normal (a lot of name calling and stupid comments mostly from Trump or Trump supporters) for today's climate. Well Rob and his family are Catholic and were always democrats and traditionally voted democrat. He is registered democrat but tells me he votes his conscience. He does not tell me who he actually votes for but I am guessing we cancel out each other's vote from time to time. My family is all Protestant but my parents were registered democrats just so they could vote in local elections and primaries where there were mostly democrats while they tended to hold conservative Christian views. I am registered republican and usually vote republican but I have voted democrat from time to time, just not recently. The primary topic of our conversation is how can we as faithful Christians vote for Hillary or Trump? Rob is pro-life but said that he was taught in seminary not to make a choice for a candidate on just one issue. I said I understand that in concept, but I can't feel good about putting Hillary in office because of her support of abortion for anyone who wants one. Robs view is that I am too narrow in this thinking. His family is also military (marine) so I think he is mindful of Hillary’s experience abroad as sec state. I see her as dishonest and deceitful and basically a person who misrepresents on a major scale and when caught, still got out of situation so I can only imagine bribery or blackmail was involved. My faith and Robs faith are strong and sincere, but it seems we have to discern our choice to vote differently. We can't really judge either candidate as a Christian because neither really is one. So all we can do is judge them by what they are whether it be lawyer, businessman, diplomat or real estate developer or former First Lady. Do you judge a quarterback by his faith or his touchdowns? Touchdowns of course! We basically agree to disagree.

	➢	Good morning!!!! I had a conversation with my friend who lives a couple house's away. It started good. She is a straight trump supported. She likes the fact he is going to a ""wall'' which we had a debate on how this would be done or even be affective. Then we talked about abortion. Where she thinks it’s not up to women it is murder. Now I had in the past felt if you couldn't afford or were in a bad way, drugs, abusive relationships, homeless, or just couldn't afford a child it was okay. Now after having 6 kids and as of yesterday at 7 pm 9 grandchild I feel if the child was conceived as a result of rape or the mother or child we in physical danger and it’s before 14 weeks its Owe were both at a disagreement. On her being of Jewish decent and I myself being catholic she was saying your catholic you don't believe in abortion. As many Catholics are pro-life it’s not a deal breaker being a catholic. [It seems that the topic of abortion is important to you and your friend. May I clarify that if the candidate was Catholic that would not be an issue or is their position on abortion more important? What if the candidate was another faith or religion?] Their beliefs in religion have no bearing on my vote.       It’s about their stance on things. Immigration is a very big thing as is national security.       We were speaking more on abortion because of the fact I have 6 Children, and now 9 grandchildren. She was saying typical catholic upbringing that's how we got our the subject. Lol...Thank you so much on my grandson...


	➢	I talked to my best friend. She and I took our children and voted together in the election 8 years ago, when my youngest was 3 months old! She does not see this election as good, considering the 2 who are options. She prays God will take mercy on us. Our choices are about as far from godly as possible, so all we can do is have faith. She pointed out how far we have fallen away from God since Bill Clinton was in office. Yes, sin has always been rampant in politics, but it was always kept hidden. To have our president have an affair and then lie about it was awful, but we as a country turned the other way. She says that was when we as a country started to really justify our sin. We both think it is a shame that there are good people who would be wonderful leaders, but they won't get the chance because of that fact. This country does not seem to want godly and wise leadership.

	➢	My husband. He sees the tone of this election as very bad. His faith plays an active role in who he votes for, but for the past several elections it has been more a voting for "the lessor of 2 evils". I agree with him, I don't really want to vote for any of the candidates since none stand for what I believe, so I also choose the lessor of 2 evils.

	➢	Most of my friends are Jehovah's Witnesses. At least the ones of faith are. As you may or may not know, Jehovah's Witnesses do not take part in any political activity. They like to see themselves as no part of this world. I did try to speak with a friend but she professed to be unconcerned and not interested in the current political goings on. Now, I believe that in fact she does pay some attention to what is going on but she won't admit that because to do so would be to admit that she is not being obedient to the leaders of her faith. So there was not too much of a conversation as I'm sure you can imagine.

	➢	I talked to my husband about the election, we both agreed that the tone of the election wasn't what we would call civil, and it felt like the candidates were working harder to tear one another down than to lift themselves up. He said he doesn't really focus on the campaign itself from a faith based perspective, if he knew outright that a candidate did not believe in God or followed a religion that was vastly different from his own (examples mentioned were, Jehovah Witness, Mormon, Muslim) he would be far less inclined to vote for that person. [Why does your husband feel less inclined to vote for a person who believed or followed a religion vastly different from his? How vast would it have to be?] The three religions he mentioned were Jehovah’s Witnesses, Mormon, and Muslim.  He said that he felt they might have different priorities and a different moral compass than he would want in a leader. 

	➢	I had a conversation with my brother. He thinks the Presidential election has a fairly negative tone. We discussed our faith in the election and he feel that it has been prophesied that Trump will win, so he is going to vote for Trump.

	➢	I had a discussion with my husband about this. I had wanted to discuss it with someone else, but I've had to work a lot of overtime at work. He expressed that he thought the tone of the presidential candidates was unprofessional, and agreed with my assessment when I said I thought the tone was combative. In discussing what we thought of the tone of the candidates, our faith did not come up.

	➢	I had a conversation with a close friend from church and from my life group at church.  We had discussed politics earlier in the year during the primaries, but had not discussed the presidential election in several months. She is not pleased with the candidates that are left after the primaries and sees the tone of the election as this point as not civil and rather unprofessional.  She deems the office of President as a position that is worthy of respect and honor and feels the current candidates lack these qualities and do not give the position respect.  We did discuss faith and how it shapes our views regarding our role in society in regards to voting and what God's word says about it.  We also discussed other well-known Christians who have shared their views on the election and whether we agreed with them or how we disagreed.  We discussed how the election of either main candidate could affect our lives and would affect the country in the coming years.  Our faith is who we are so of course it played a role as we evaluated both candidates and how we felt these candidates would govern in regards to our faith. [Could you elaborate on how your faith will play a role in evaluating the candidates and what would it take for you to support a candidate? What were the views of the other well-known Christians you spoke of?] Our faith played a role in evaluating the candidates by using Scripture to discuss immature Christians vs. mature Christians vs. cultural "Christians". Cultural Christians is a term she uses to describe someone who professes they are a Christian but it seems unsure whether they have a true saving faith in Jesus. This is seen a lot here in the South/Bible belt where almost everyone says they are a Christian but not all demonstrate characteristics described by the Bible of a Christian. We discussed how it can be convenient for politicians/candidates to identify with Christianity but do their actions, words, votes on legislation align with God's Word. She and I describe immature Christians as those who are new to a relationship with Jesus Christ or have not matured in their faith since receiving Christ as their Lord and Savior. Mature Christians are those who do demonstrate growth and sanctification and also demonstrate fruit from their relationship with Jesus as described in Matthew 7:10 "Thus, by their fruit you will recognize them." and Colossians 1: 10 "so that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and please him in every way: bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God,". This is how our faith is being used to evaluate the candidates as guided by our faith in the work of Jesus and the Word of God.   The views of other well-known Christians have discussed the possibility that Trump may be an immature Christian. Some well-known Christians spoke out strongly against him in the primaries but have been quiet since he is now the Republican nominee. Other Christians have supported him from early on in the primary and have stated they are voting for a President not voting on the basis of Christianity. It will be interesting to see how these views evolve as we move forward in the election season.   ****I answered this earlier today but put it in the wrong spot as a blog post.  See above.  I apologize! 

	➢	My friend patty she is a chaplain. She thought it was out of control.  The lies, hatred. Yes, her faith says they don’t get too involved in politics or war as she is Mennonite.  She also said if trump claims to be Christian she won’t call him a liar.  And lots of people say they are and act the same way.  She thinks Hillary is a liar. she doesn’t like or agree with trumps views behavior or hatred.  She doesn't believe in violence and trump encourages violence. [Why would she not call Trump a liar if he says he is a Cristian and what makes her believe Clinton is a liar?] Um I think what I meant to say is she might not believe he’s a Christian but she won’t call him a liar for that since she doesn’t believe in saying someone anyone is lying regarding their faith.  She said a lot of people claim to be of faith but their behavior and actions show different.  She said who am I to say they are regarding their faith.  She thinks Hillary is a lair bout ethics not about her faith.  

	➢	I visited with my mother about the upcoming election. She's very disappointed by the quality of the two candidates and sees the tone of the election as unpleasant. Neither candidate fits in with her beliefs or ideals. I believe her faith leads her to expect moral behavior from others as she would expect from those around her. Her faith leads her to disagree, like I do, about Donald Trump's comments about refusing Muslim immigrants. As part of an older generation whose faith teaches them, she disagrees with same sex marriages which is of course a political and social hot button. In that way, her faith definitely influences her political beliefs. Also of topic was the funding of Planned Parenthood and the legalities of abortions. In this way, our conversation was swayed by her religious beliefs that influence her political leanings.

	➢	I had a conversation with two people a friend and a workplace acquaintance. They were in agreement that the tone of the presidential election especially in the last week that it is full of vitriol and out of control rage. And it is disconcerting. We talked about that internal barometer that a persons of faith can rely on as an anchor of sorts. we said that faith is sorely missing and is much needed faith tolerance and respect. [I understand you all believe that faith is missing from this election, and I wish to ask what everyone would need to hear or relate to from the candidates to be reassured that they possess faith, tolerance, and respect? If the candidates can demonstrate these qualities, would they have to parallel your own personal beliefs or do they just need to possess them? How do they feel religion plays a part?] This is the second time I'm responding to this follow up question so sure hope it posts this time :) no the candidates don't have to mirror my own personal religious beliefs however it is important to me that they exhibit a measure of faith and demonist such .... I personally believe faith serves as an anchor and although our democracy is based on freedom to practice any religion you desire it's important to me they at although they don't practice publicly that they process these attributes internally and embrace faith based morals  

	➢	I had a talk worth my husband.   He also believes Trump needs to tone down the selfishness and sick to the issues.  Christian or not is none of our business.  God will deal with each of us individually.

	➢	I had a conversation with 2 of my friends about the candidates. They also think that Trumps re-tweets things from the supremacists and neo-Nazis.  They also feel that he is running a dirty campaign, by bashing Clinton whenever he can. They are also pro-Israel. Our faith never was discussed. [I understand they are pro-Israel, did your friends express how being pro-Israel impacts who they are supporting?] Yes because of our faith.  Since the people of Israel are the chosen ones. 

	➢	I had a conversation with my 20-year-old son. He sees the tone of the presidential election as "sad" and "scary." His sentiments pretty much mirror my own - he doesn't necessarily think Trump is honest and refined enough for the job, but knows for a fact that the depth of Clinton's lies are incomparable to the point where she is unelectable. His faith plays a huge role in the way he lives day-to-day, so his words are spoken from the heart and with love. His faith, like mine, leads him to think an honest and sincere candidate like Ted Cruz, Dr. Ben Carson or even Rick Santorum would have been so much better.

	➢	Our faith played a role in evaluating the candidates by using Scripture to discuss immature Christians vs. mature Christians vs. cultural "Christians".  Cultural Christians is a term she uses to describe someone who professes they are a Christian but it seems unsure whether they have a true saving faith in Jesus.  This is seen a lot here in the South/Bible belt where almost everyone says they are a Christian but not all demonstrate characteristics described by the Bible of a Christian.  We discussed how it can be convenient for politicians/candidates to identify with Christianity but do their actions, words, votes on legislation align with God's Word.  She and I describe immature Christians as those who are new to a relationship with Jesus Christ or have not matured in their faith since receiving Christ as their Lord and Savior.  Mature Christians are those who do demonstrate growth and sanctification and also demonstrate fruit from their relationship with Jesus as described in Matthew 7:10 "Thus, by their fruit you will recognize them." and Colossians 1: 10 "so that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and please him in every way: bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God,".  This is how our faith is being used to evaluate the candidates as guided by our faith in the work of Jesus and the Word of God. The views of other well-known Christians have discussed the possibility that Trump may be an immature Christian.  Some well-known Christians spoke out strongly against him in the primaries but have been quiet since he is now the Republican nominee.  Other Christians have supported him from early on in the primary and have stated they are voting for a President not voting on the basis of Christianity.  It will be interesting to see how these views evolve as we move forward in the election season.

	➢	my neighbor Judy and I talk a lot about the country and the presidential election. She lives a few doors down from me and is a person of faith. She happens to agree with a lot of my believes. We are both sick of the way the country is headed and with the government that has been running it. Neither one of us considered faith in our decision. We are both more concerned with getting someone into office that isn't afraid to fight back against all the evil coming our way. [What evil do you and your friend believe is coming to the United States? How do you believe Trump or Clinton will deal with those evils and why one candidate is better than the other?] I think Donald Trump will be tougher on the terrorists. Hillary is going to owe other countries to many favors because she has been accepting donations from them. she is all for letting anyone into this country before we have a solid plan to screen them. we let to many evil people into this country. I think Donald Trump would protect us more so than Hillary. I've listened to a lot of the debates and speeches and Hillary keeps changing her position on many of her views. she takes money from countries that are cruel to their woman but says she is for woman's rights. when I say evil I am talking about people wanting to harm us just because we are American's.  


Activity 5: Trump Impressions
As you are probably aware, Donald Trump has become the Republican nominee for President. Regardless of whether you support him, we are hoping to get some of your initial impressions about Donald Trump.  How do you think you will be personally affected if Donald Trump wins the Presidency?  Please tell us your thinking or reasons for your answer.  What are the biggest benefits of a Trump Presidency? What are the biggest risks of a Trump Presidency? Donald Trump describes himself as a Christian. o   Do you see Trump as a Christian?    

Catholic Women

	➢	I don't know that I will personally affected if he becomes president. but I don't think he would be a good leader for our country. I think he will be tougher on illegal immigration, which I do agree with. But I think he will offend a lot of other countries with his brass personality. I also think he is a little too cocky and will try to make too big of changes to things without thinking them all the way thru. I don't think that he acts like Christians are supposed to act. especially with all the name calling he does to others. [Why do you believe you will not be affected if Trump becomes president? How are Christians supposed to act in your opinion and do you believe Trump needs to act that way if he is president?] Christians should try to be respectful of people. and Trump definitely is not. he basically disrespects everyone from immigrants to women and the disabled  

	➢	I don't know that I will be personally affected as long as he doesn't start a war with his big mouth. He certainly can rub people the wrong way with his manner and he is very outspoken.

	➢	I think one of the benefits of having him as a president is his knowledge of big business. He knows how to make money and, somehow, win people over.   I don't understand it, but some people seem to like his style and respect him. The biggest risk is his outspoken way of dealing with people. He says whatever he wants and is not one to be diplomatic. I don't see him as being very religious.

	➢	First of I thought why not trump. He is a business man and maybe that’s what this country needs for a change instead of a lying politician so forctaht I think it would be good The prob with trump is he speaks his mind a little too much and other countries will look at him as a joke I’m not sure how Christian he is He does seem to talk a lot of bad about the other candidates. [Does your uncertainty of Trump's Christian values have an impact on your impressions of him?] I guess in a way they do. He does name call and bully which turns me off of thinking him as our country’s leader He does need to act a little more Christian. [In what ways does Trump need to act more Christian?] His words are very harsh He speaks without worrying about who he offends His words against a lot of people are offending He needs to be more respectful He may not like how some people act or look but he doesn’t need to openly put them down We all have our own opinions about people but keep them to yourself Stop badmouthing people openly   

	➢	I think my taxes I pay will go up because he seems to only be concerned about the rich staying rich. I am in the middle class and I don't think he has my best interests at heart. I also think I will have to pay more for my health insurance because he will get rid of Obamacare. I think Obamacare has reduced the price we all pay for health insurance. The biggest benefit of Trump Being President is that there will be much less illegal immigration. That will be an improvement because the resources will not have to be spent as much on people not paying taxes. The biggest risks of a Trump Presidency is that he is a one man show and will not take kindly to others in his camp giving him advice if he does not agree with them. Also, other World Leaders will not respect Trump and may turn against that US. I do not see Trump as a Christian because he does not seem to be willing to help others as Christ wants us to.

	➢	I think Donald Trump is a better candidate for presidency then Hillary even though he scares me as well. I don't think much will change for me personally if he becomes the president. I see him in the beginning focusing his attention on what he can handle best which is running a business and expanding. I don't think he'll focus too much on foreign policies first. I think if he wins he's going to focus on bringing back jobs to America that were before sent overseas which would be great if it could actually happen. I'm hoping with his business expertise that he'll tackle the horrible limitations Obama put on small business owners and if anything helps reverse his orders and instill ones that will help grow the small business economy. Another benefit I'm hoping he'll bring to the table is a better method of border watching between us and Mexico. There are just too many stories to share about how scary it can be living so close to the border, which I still have family that does. I would hope he'd start with something else that Obama took away which is Border Patrol financial budgets and staffing. I think Trump will work with the Border Patrol agencies in developing their skills further to help them succeed in keeping the borders safe. A big risk I have with Trump becoming president is his lack of compassion. I don't know how much of this is an act to get covered by the media more, in regards to his blunt remarks but it really does come across that he only cares about his agendas and if you can't per-sway his ideals then it's a lost cause. Also it's been so long since we've had a non-politician in office and although that idea excites me it also terrifies me in is he capable enough to handle foreign leaders. Also I think during his campaign he is making a lot of enemies so assassination could also be a factor with his bold ideas. I don't really see the term Christian as something it once stood for so if Trump describes himself as one just go for it like everyone else does. It saddens me that so many people claim to be Christians but that have never picked up a Bible or even know who Jesus really was. They just know hey this guy Jesus a lot of people claim him as their God so I guess I will too, without ever knowing what he went through. So many people nowadays claim the term Christian but then go ahead and pick what things out of the Bible they want to believe and ignore the rest as if it doesn't exist. Some Christians don't even recognize valid books of the Bible and exclude them in their teachings. Unfortunately, Christianity is getting more and more divided then it ever should have. So I really don't take offense to people who call themselves Christians because I'll believe it in their actions versus their words. So far Trump displays acts of Christianity such as when he donated a lot of money to the veterans during one of his campaign runs.

	➢	I think that it will personally affect me when I visit a hospital for care because he will do away with Obamacare. If I need to visit a hospital I will not have to wait because all the rooms won't be full with people who don't need to be there, but go anyways because of the healthcare for everyone currently. My life would directly improve. The biggest benefits of his presidency includes no more Obamacare, a complete different direction for the country which we need, less illegal immigration using our benefits for free when he have homeless people, and putting our needs first. The biggest risks include if we have a relationship with North Korea, will other countries see that as treason? Will his candid mouth get him into trouble with our allies? I see him as a Christian because he does want good for this country. He wants to make the country better by making our own things, thus creating jobs. He wants us to stop helping others who should be secondary to the list when our own people should be put first like our homeless. We have spent so much resources and money helping other countries when we have people starving here and homeless. The reason he is so passionate about his ideas is because he values America and the citizens.

	➢	From a personal perspective I feel like a Trump Presidency will adversely affect me from a financial perspective.  He has discussed re-vamping Social Security which with definitely affect me.  I am 60 years old and can retire at 66 and 2 months but he had said that the age to receive full Social Security should be increased.  Unfortunately, most Americans still rely on these benefits for retirement. Trump is an astute businessman and our country could be served well if it were run like a business.  He is a great negotiator and salesman which will help our country internationally when presented with opportunities for such discussions.  His negotiating skills will also help him when dealing with Congress. Trump is arrogant, abrasive, and generally a bully.  He doesn't care about being liked and, in fact, seems to thrive on being disliked.  This personality trait has and will continue to offend others.  Imagine what will happen when he pulls this abrasiveness at a G7 Summit.  What an embarrassment to the US! I certainly can't say one way or the other whether Trump is a Christian.  That would be judging.  However, he doesn't seem to hold the same Christian beliefs I do.  He flip-flops on the abortion issue to suit whatever his political agenda is at the moment.  Today he is pro-life but previously he wasn't.  He stereotypes ethnic groups.  He is condescending to everyone it seems.  He often says "I love the _______ people."  That statement alone is perceived to be condescending to groups different than himself.

	➢	I'm not entirely sure how I will be personally affected by a Trump Presidency. My gut reaction is that he will cause lots of chaos, economically, environmentally, and with foreign relations. I fear there are no benefits to a Trump Presidency except that it would eliminate another Clinton Presidency. The biggest risk with Trump is his unpredictability. He is constantly saying things and then backtracking, claiming he never said it in the first place. I believe the man lack diplomacy which is crucial in a President especially while dealing in foreign relations particularly with the current political climate in the middle east. I'm afraid Trump will say or do something that will lead us to war. Though he may claim to be a Christian, his Christianity does not show. I am not God; I cannot speak to the man's soul. But from an outside view I do not believe he is truly a Christian. [Could you please elaborate as to why the only benefit you see to Trump being president is that it would eliminate another Clinton Presidency if you believe he would cause "lots of chaos, economically, environmentally, and with foreign relations," along with the other risks you mentioned. If you believe he is not Christian, what kind of impact does that have on you? Some individuals also believe Trump could lead the US into conflicts with other nations or jeopardize our homeland security. Why do you think then he is still an attractive candidate to voters?] I think the only benefit to trump being president is that Hillary will not be president. I am not a fan of her politics either.   His lack of Christianity doesn't really have an effect on me. I think it does lead to a lack of morals on his part but there have been other presidents in the past who I doubt were truly Christians but they still had a better moral center than trump.   I think his followers are attracted to him for bad reasons. Many of them agree with trumps racist views and he's the first candidate to ever be so clearly bigoted. Sadly, there are many people in America who are just as bigoted so they find him attractive.  

	➢	I feel like I have no idea what Trump will actually do if elected president.  His words and policy's seem to be designed to get the biggest shock value possible.  As such I expect his actions as president would be the same.  I'm scared of what that would do.  What I do know is that if Trump was elected president and followed through on his current ideas I would be scared to be a woman, scared to have health conditions, scared to be a working class American, and scared to have friends who are not white.  The risks of a Trump presidency are total economic collapse and perhaps civil war.  The certainty is racist, sexist, classist policies.  I see no benefits at all to a Trump Presidency.  He is not a Christian man.  He is not even a moral man.  He's a performer looking to get the biggest following by amusing the crowd the most.  Anyone can say they're Christian but if your policies are not compassionate and understanding of human strife then you are not Christian and not fit to lead anyone.

	➢	If Trump wins I see a major change in funding for Dept. of Education, as I have a school age child. Other issues are extreme which would not personally affect me (I.e. Gay marriage/anti-abortion/no government investment in retirement funds/etc.). Benefits are that he is a savvy business man. Risks are his traits; my way or highway idea. He does not embody a bipartisan party member. Does not have public resume of service like Hillary. Does not appear as particularly Christian in verse or political demeanor.

	➢	I think that having Donald Trump has president can have its advantages and disadvantages. He certainly is a trendsetter with a lot of good ideas yet at the same time I am embarrassed at his outlandish behavior when I listen to him inappropriately pontificate about opponents, racial classifications and situations. I am afraid that he will lower the perception of the presidency and our nation.  I would desire for him to get trained on how to professionally speak in public and present reasonable policies without offending groups of people. I find it hard to believe at times that he is a well-educated, successful business man with an impressive family and how he got so far with the way he presents himself to the American public.  He can be shocking.  On the other hand, I admire the fact he has shaken up the political establishment in a way that has brought scrutiny to the 'old ways of doing political business' and that is why he is popular. If he can be a catalyst for change and a visionary for the future, then I want him to do these things but in a manner that does not offend others.  He has gotten all of our attention but I don't want him to waste our time without providing substance to what he promises. I want him to be able to delegate to others to make change come about but do it in a manner that is exemplary for our country and youth.  If he continues in the path of offensiveness, then I think our nation loses credibility and a sense of worth.  Our citizens will then think that being offensive is 'ok' and it's not.  When the issue of practicing one's faith comes to mind for Donald Trump I really don't associate practicing religion with him at all.  I think of him as a business man but not as a man of faith.  I really know nothing of his religious affiliation.  He has raised an impressive family so there must be a value system that he attests to; however, his treatment of other people doesn't correlate to faith based principles. I realize that he must act in a certain way to 'shock' the American people in order to gain their attention but I personally believe that he needs to 'tone' it down a bit and act/speak in a more professional tone.

	➢	I really don't see my life being affected if Trump is elected other then setting women’s rights back 50 years. Mr. Trump seems to think women should be at home with babies and not making choices of their own or in a beauty contest. I see no benefit for Mr. Trump being President and I have tried to look, read and listen to a benefit and I see none. I see nothing but a big risk if he became President as he does not get along well with some of the other leaders of other countries (some even will not allow him into their countries) he has stated that he believes in nuclear war and that he knows more about IS then any General does. Mr. Trump does not have any background in politics which at one time I thought would be a good thing but after hearing him speak I don't think so now. Mr. Trump wants it his way or no way which means that him and Congress would be butting heads all the time and no laws would get passed and he would try and fire each and every one that disagreed with him and he would not understand that he did not have the power to do that. Mr. Trump is a Christian? I must have missed when he said that one but then again I tune him out with all the cussing he does. Hmm Mr. Trump as a Christian... he has been married how many times?? Cusses?? Runs a shady investment schooling company?? Degrades people?? Caught in lies and had to back track how many times?? Would you want to have him speak at your church with children there? I have to say that no way that I can see Mr. Trump as a good practicing Christian. [I understand your position on Trump, but I am curious to know if there is anything you could read, listen, or look at that would convince you otherwise that he would make an effective President? Do you believe he is capable of making changes in his behavior to demonstrate he could be an effective leader?  Setting aside what you have already stated about Trump, you believe he is not Christian, does that impact your view of him?] Mr. Trump not acting in what I would think is a moral Christian matter is one of the main reasons I don't think he would make a good President along with his ever changing temperament. In all the time Mr. Trump has been on the campaign trail his temperament and judgement has just gone downhill and I doubt that anyone can help him change or at least tone down his comments and help him focus on the major issues.

	➢	If Donald Trump were to be elected my gut feeling is that he would have a negative impact upon me personally. This negative impact could be in the form of higher taxes, no health insurance, loss of a job or any number of other negative happenings that could be directly contributed to Donald Trump becoming President. (Example: Another country becomes so outraged that he is elected, that they plan an attack). I do not see any benefit of a Trump Presidency. I only see negativity if he were elected. The biggest risks of a Trump Presidency would be that congress and the senate would be so busy in fighting that nothing would get done. The other risk is that other countries would not support Trump/America politics. The biggest risks of a Trump Presidency is that he will anger some extremist group and they would plan an attack. I do not see Trump as a Christian. He does not display Christian values. He has been married 3 times, cheated on his first wife, cheats in his business dealings, I do not feel he is honorable.

	➢	I don't think I will be personally affected too much because the President really does not have total control or power over issues.  It is handled by Congress who passes the bills. The biggest benefits are that he is a business man who hopefully could handle the national debt better than the previous presidents. The risks are he seems like he is someone you cannot trust.  He is a bully who seems to have no idea of what the issues are for the average American.  He is only for the rich. He does describe himself as a Christian but he does not practice what he preaches.  I saw him mock someone with a disability.  He has absolutely no compassion and that is very scary for a leader of a country.  He also said he was pro-choice but then when he wanted the endorsement of the religious right he changed his mind and now he is pro-life.  He goes with whoever can do the most for him.

	➢	I have no idea.  Possibly, International challenges because he is going after other countries, ie: Mexico. Biggest benefits: feel the country would start to be run in a more fiscally sound, less corrupt manner. Biggest risks: a divided country. And, he is volatility I think he believes in Christ.  However, his actions are not very Christian like.

	➢	I think Trump wants America to start looking at our own problems at home and concentrate more on rebuilding and preserving America. But in doing so he brings the biggest risks of putting America in one of the biggest recessions, even bigger then the great depression it is being said. Possibly 9.4 million jobs will or could be lost which affects the working class that support him the most. That affects everybody. I have had a hard enough time as it is getting a new job but with that man y more people at a loss of a job it could get pretty scary. His economic proposals are super risky. Also the strong language Trump has used towards Mexico and China could ultimately lead to a huge trade war. I don’t see Trump as a Christian at all. He doesn’t embody the Christian spirit or true beliefs.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	If Drump becomes president all civil liberties and rights will ve stripped away and hatred and bigotry will create a bigger rift. There is absolutely not a single benefit of him becoming president just things getting worse. The biggest issues are his personality utter hatred for anyone who is not rich a disregard for anyone he deems unworthy. Drump is no more Christian than Lucifer. (Male)


	➢	I would like to think that a Trump presidency would be net beneficial to me and my family.  I think that his policies would be divisive, and would either garner strong support or opposition from citizens, but I'm hoping that the balance would be a net positive.  One of the biggest benefits from a Trump presidency would be a strengthening of the United States as a whole on the world stage.  In recent years, the reputation of our country has fallen greatly, with our allies no longer feeling like they can count on us for support, and our enemies no longer fearing us as a superior force.  I would hope that President Trump would be able to remedy this situation. With this recommitment to global power comes many risks as well.  One big one would be how our enemies react to this resurgence of power and authority on the world stage.  Already, forces are using a distributed style of fighting that makes them harder to defeat.  Add to this the boom in immigration to the United States from all over the globe, and it could realistically be a scenario that fighting would start domestically.  I hope this is not the case, but our world seems primed for this sort of event. I am not a good of a Christian as I strive to be, and I would imagine that Trump is not either.  I have heard him state that he is a Presbyterian, and I would hope that some sort of religious underpinning would guide his decisions, despite his outward rhetoric and appearance.  I feel like we will be in need of a strong leader in the coming years, and a moral compass to guide us will be crucial. (Male)

	➢	I work at a Bilingual Tax office, and to be honest most of our clients are immigrants. Along with my business being majorly effected, I have friends and co-workers who could be deported because of Trump's arrogance. I think the only benefit of Trump becoming president is that he may stop all of the jobs from going overseas, but on the other side of that coin, we will lose so many workers that we will have too many job openings. The biggest risk I see with Trump becoming president is that he may cause us to fight another war, over his non-diplomatic skill set with other countries. He may lead us into a war that would devastate the United States. I do not see him as a Christian, he is hateful and judgmental to almost everyone. Even during his own rallies, he is rude and pig-headed. (Female)

	➢	I am still open to changing my mind regarding whom I would vote for. As of now, however, I think I would, in addition to others, would be affected negatively if Donald Trump won the Presidency. While he does speak what he believes to think as true, which I strongly admire, he has farfetched and radical ideas (completely banning Muslims for a temporary period, although he has backtracked on this, etc.). The biggest benefits of a Trump Presidency are that: he would not relent to lobbyists and he would not cower to world leaders. The biggest risks of a Trump Presidency are: economics (as he has not given any true details of anything--everything is focused on "The Wall", Muslims, and Clinton's e-mails) and relationships within the U.S. whether it be race, gender, or ethnicity (he continuously makes racist and misogynistic remarks). As for seeing Trump as a Christian, I do not believe he is a TRUE Christian. A true Christian does not throw shade at other races or ethnicities. A true Christian does not suppress women. A true Christian does not joke about individuals with special needs. [You mention that what is admirable about Trump is that he speaks his mind, and he does not relent to outside pressures. Some individuals believe this to be a flaw as his words and behaviors could lead the US to conflicts with other nations or jeopardize our homeland security. What are your thoughts on this? How do you believe Trump could use his beliefs and strong will effectively as a leader?] Him speaking his mind and not relenting to outside pressures can definitely be a negative as well; that's for sure! With how outspoken he is, I definitely see that viewpoint as well. In terms of being steadfast in what he believes and not budging with various international or domestic policies, it could be a positive in that he doesn't back down. He has maintained presence throughout the business world with his companies and has made decisions being steadfast before, so I am sure he can carry that with him if he were to win the Presidency. (Male)

	➢	These are some really great questions. I am a Trump supporter, but for one reason. He is out in the open. I think that if he is elected, then at least I would know what is going on in our country. I think that many people would benefit from his presidency because he is not going to be a puppet. At the same times, this is a bad thing. He would not have to abide by congress or the legislatures, and why? It is because he has so much money. Is he Christian? Well, I believe that he is, but he has done some very unlike Christian things. Nobody is perfect in the least bit. I think that faith, while does matter, is not the main reason to elect the president. They need to be biased, moral, and able to judge diplomatically. [In what ways does a candidate need to be moral, biased, and judge diplomatically? Some individuals believe that his behavior to not be a puppet could lead the US into conflicts with other nations or jeopardize our homeland security. What are your thoughts on this? Could you please elaborate on your comment about Trump's money and why that would be the reason he would not have to abide by Congress or legislatures?] I think that morality should be in every person. That is the sense that they should do what is right and be honest about it. A candidate can, I do apologize, I meant unbiased. They can be this way by simply accepting everyone. What I mean by judge diplomatically is that you should be able to see when people have done wrong, but also be able to see when they have done right and you need to be able to go by the law and not by what you think. I think that he would not have to abide by congress with his money because they could deny something, but he goes behind their backs, vetoes it, or provides the funds to do so. Can this lead to impeachment? Yes, it most certainly can. I do not think that he really cares about that though. I mean he may abide by them, but at the same time he may just as well think that he can do absolutely anything that he wants and get away with it. I think that it could be a threat to homeland security, but only because we may not know where the funds would actually be going. I hope that this cleared things up. Also, it may be a threat because people who think that he will not be a puppet would feel threatened and they would rebel, but I think that they would only be outraged because he is not following the same guidelines as everyone else. This could lead to riots and protests of sorts. He has got to be careful if elected. (Female)

	➢	I don't think I will largely be affected if Trump becomes President. I do fear that certain programs will change like the Affordable Care Act that is crucial in making healthcare for my family affordable. Otherwise, I think the main negative affect from Trump will be in regards to international relations and businesses. The biggest benefits of a Trump Presidency would be have a leader who is bold. The biggest risks of a Trump Presidency would be international war, increase in poverty, worsened economic circumstances. I do not see the actions of Trump or words of Trump confirming him as a Christian. (Male)

	➢	Being from a small town, I do not feel that I will be personally affected by any person elected President, Trump included. I feel that the benefits of a Trump presidency may be job creation, economic stimulus, and protection from terroristic elements abroad and in country. By the same flip of the coin, I worry that Trump's quote unquote "protection measures" may result in civil rights infringement. Also, Trump very well may be a Christian. You can have religious beliefs or leanings, and still be "politically incorrect" or offensive to someone in your day-to-day remarks, that doesn't necessarily make you a sacrilegious or unholy person. We are all only human. [Why do you believe being from a small town you feel you will not be personally affected by who becomes President? You state that Trump's policies may lead to civil rights infringements, why do you believe he is still an attractive candidate to voters? It seems that Christian values do not want to jeopardize civil rights. What is your opinion as to why some Christians believe he is the right candidate?] Ultimately, in light of the large number of American citizens, I feel quit insignificant in the grand scheme of things.   2. There is currently a high degree of tension in this nation, be it based on race, politics, religion, or some other human facet. I sometimes feel that Trump makes fiery statements, but that he is simply posturing for his audience.  However, should he come to power and actually get his policies into effective practice, they may or mayn't be infringing towards whatever group they're targeting. Voters back him, however, because they view his show of take-action strength as a means towards national security.    3. Christians may find him attractive because they hold opinions which may literally align with (their individual interpretations) of Biblical doctrine.  Due to the age of the Bible's authorship, certain passages are probably likely to be misconstrued, or more appropriately, lost in the translations which are jaded by 21st century "logic” or ideology. In this sense, such interpretation may translate roughly, bringing a brusque "offensive" to whichever group is in question. (Male)

	➢	I think I will be personally affected if his decisions are damaging in terms of expanding the powers of the presidency and throwing the balance of powers of course even more than it already is (with Bush and Obama). I am fearful of the overuse of executive actions to do that because ultimately that takes away freedom and that has an impact on individuals, obviously. I think that if he proves capable of leading economically, of stopping illegal immigration, and of not engaging in empire-building foreign wars that are not necessary, that could strengthen the economy, directly impacting me, and give people like me more hope in the future of the country. I think the biggest benefits are the ones just stated: potentially strengthening the economy, no empire-building foreign wars, and stopping illegal immigration. I find the biggest risks of a Trump presidency the overuse of executive authority, whether by executive orders or other means. I am of course equally fearful of this with Clinton though. I find the risk of a tyrant in either of them very large. I am doubtful that Trump is a Christian. I of course don't think anyone can know for sure where another spiritually is at. People who you wouldn't expect to be can be Christians, and people who claim to be aren't necessarily. Trump has said that when asked if he ever repented of anything that he never did because he had nothing to repent of. If that was said in jest, and perhaps it was, then that's no indicator. But if he really meant it then he is not a Christian. To be a Christian you must recognize that you have sinned and that Christ has to provide a covering for those sins in order for you to have eternal life. But I wasn't there, perhaps those words were just said in jest. I wouldn't guess it from his rude and sometimes crude behavior, but some Christians aren't as mature as others - behaving badly doesn't mean you're not a Christian. Some just haven't had much spiritual growth, and it just takes the faith the size of a mustard seed to be a Christian. (Female)

	➢	The only way I feel I would be personally affected is with his plans on reforming health care. Many of the issues he is adamant about would honestly have little effect on my life in general. I think the biggest benefits of having Trump in office is that he will not lie as much as others have. I also feel he is concerned with issues that concern America, such as health care, very deeply. I think he will go the extra mile and really try to solve this issue and other issues that are currently being neglected and will try to turn the country around from the direction it is going to a much more prosperous future. The risks I see are his eccentric behavior. I am worried he will be quick to go to war with other countries if he is threatened. I also worry about how far he will really go with his immigration and deportation plans. I think if he "builds a wall" and deports a lot of people, it will go against what the country was founded on. Though I do see it as necessary to an extent, I am worried about how the job market and economy will react. If he states he is Christian, I am no one to judge or say that he is not. No one but him and the Lord knows what he truly feels in his heart. I know a lot of negative views of him are out there for some of the things he says and some of the ways he acts. Some of these things could be easily considered not Christian but, once again, if he says he is Christian then he is in my eyes. (Male)

	➢	I think if Trump wins, our economy will improve. I believe that will have a strong impact on everyone's lives. It is one of the biggest reasons I am voting for him. I also believe that we as a nation will be more secure with Trump as president. And although that might not seem like an obvious day to day difference, it will affect us. The benefits are exactly what I mentioned above. I believe our economy will grow, we will be more secure, and our borders will be more secure. The risks are few in my opinion. However, they are potentially large. I feel like his largest risk is his cockiness in international policy. If he mouths off to the wrong person and speaks from the hip in anger...we could find ourselves in a rather dangerous position. I don't know honestly. He claims to be, and some people that know him better than I do say he is. But he doesn't always act the part. I cannot see into a man's heart especially when I don't know him personally. I have my doubts about his beliefs, but I also give him the benefit of the doubt (Male)

	➢	Personally affected: I don't immediately foresee any damages or changes to my daily life (ie I am a US citizen so I won't be on any no fly lists or deportation). Quality of life could change though. I'm not sure about what he thinks he's going to change or do for Americans. The benefits of a Trump presidency: Again, I don't really see what benefits to my life there will be. I haven't seen any reason to believe that things are going to be much different. Laws still have to move through the senate; the Supreme Court will stay make their decisions. Biggest Risks: I feel like a Trump presidency is going to downgrade American appeal. Between him and his wife I think the White House will look like a Las Vegas act. As a born-again Christian I have to concede that the Bible teaches that "man looks on the outward appearance but the Lord looks at the heart." I can't see Trump's heart. Maybe he is a Christian. However, the Bible also teaches that when someone believes in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior they will have a change of heart. I don't agree that he lives by Christian morals and that makes it difficult to believe him when he claims to be a Christian. (Female)

	➢	I think that the only area that a Trump Presidency would affect me directly is in terms of the cost of imported goods that I purchase. Trump frequently flip-flops and is unclear about his stance on a lot of issues, but I feel that he has explicitly promoted a protectionist trade policy. Raising tariffs on imported goods will make the otherwise cheap goods that I buy from abroad, specifically East Asia, more expensive. The one benefit I can think of that may result from a Trump Presidency is increased privatization of Social Security. I think that I would be able to personally invest the money that I pay towards Social Security with greater confidence that it will have appreciated in value by the time I want to retire. The second benefit I see to Trump being in office is a smaller likelihood that we will become involved in foreign entanglements, which we have seen plenty of during the Obama and Bush administrations. One risk I see to a Trump Presidency is an increased likelihood that personal liberties will be eroded at home, which is made evident by his support for spying on those who he sees as potential terrorists. Secondly, I think that environmental policy will take a step backward during a Trump Presidency, as he has expressed a dislike for alternative energy and institutions like the EPA. Third, and probably the biggest risk that I see, is an increased strain on race relations and a general divisive tone across the nation. I can't imagine a President of the United States saying the sort of things that Trump has said on the campaign trail regarding minorities and other groups of people. I recognize that Trump identifies as a Christian, but I do not see him as a Christian for a couple of reasons. First, he has said in interviews that he has never asked God for forgiveness of his sins, nor does he feel the need to. I think that this goes against the core beliefs of any mainstream denomination of Christianity. One cannot be a Christian if he or she does not accept salvation by asking for the forgiveness of sins. What use is Christ's death and resurrection if it does not cover one's sins? This is a major problem with his claiming to be a Christian. Secondly, his behavior and words, again, the way he ridicules minorities, women, and the afflicted, do not reflect the life of someone who is in Christ. I do not see Trump as a Christian, and I frankly find his masquerading as a Christian and pandering to Christians extremely offensive. One specific example of this can be seen in his speech at Liberty University where he mispronounced the name of a book of the Bible and proceeded read scripture that he clearly has no connection to, all in the name of seeking political gain. (Male)

	➢	The US will radically change if he becomes president because he will implement crazy ideas whenever possible. My life personally will not be affected a whole lot aside from maybe taxes. The biggest benefits are that he doesn't support gay marriage or the foolishness of allowing transgender to go to whichever bathroom they want. The biggest risks are war and calamity. Trump does not seem afraid to push the big red button. He will go to war with China and Russia at the same time and not even break a sweat. He is a businessman that is too used to steamrolling everyone but the US isn't as smart and powerful as it used to be. Donald trump fails to accurately describe himself. He is not a Christian or a God fearing man in any type of way. He does not follow Christ which is the definition of a Christian. (Male)

	➢	If Donald Trump were to the win the election the biggest immediate change for me will be a slight decrease in my taxes, and probably the ability for my fiancé and I to keep more of our income once we are married. From a social standpoint I'm honestly not sure. The reality is most of the changes he wants are still going to have to get through congress, and at this point people seem to have lost a significant amount of respect for him, so I believe his influence will be far less than most people expect it to be, and that is not necessarily a bad thing. The biggest benefits of Trumps presidency mostly center around the fact he is not tied down to congress, he will stand up for what he believes in, but also listen to the people on votes. I think his independence of the system is what will set him apart as an appropriate president. The biggest risk I see with Trump is going to be how he handles foreign policy, and if he will be able to work with our allies even if they don't do things the same way he wants to do them. When it comes to faith, Donald Trump is not a Christian, he is not a born again follower of Jesus Christ, and the only relationship he has to the name "Christian" is nominal in nature. He does not exude the fruit of the spirit. (Male)

	➢	I believe if Donald becomes president, America will become even more divided among its own citizens. I feel he is divisive and volatile. He does not know how to create unity and encourage peace. I honestly and truly cannot think of any benefit to Trump winning the presidency.

	➢	Donald Trump has openly advocated for war crimes and shown that he has no true planned out policies. He only knows how to name call and puff his own ego. His presidency would not only be detrimental, but completely embarrassing for our country. I do not think Donald Trump is actually a Christian. The bible says you will know who are followers of a Christ by their love. He is not a loving person. He also shows no humility. (Female)

	➢	I will be embarrassed that such a clown is in the White House. He seems so childish, and he is so stubborn in his beliefs that he even refuses to listen to people who believe something else in a reasonable manner. The only plus to a Trump presidency is that he might help to conserve a more conservative leaning in the House and Senate. The risks are that he's going to bully his way through the presidency. He's had so much power in the way he does business, that it's going to transfer into the presidency. I don't see Trump as a Christian. There's no way he acts and treats people the way he does and be a man of the Christian faith. (Female)

	➢	I am smack dab in the middle class, so I don't think Trump would affect me economically at all. The thing that scares me the most is that fact that he doesn't seem to be taking things seriously. I'm afraid what he's saying will negative effect other countries' opinions of us causing a war. 2) He seems to be pretty honest. He also has a good business sense and could hopefully work on the deficit. 3) He's arrogant and rude...especially to immigrants. I do think he's right in the sense that there needs to be stricter guidelines as far as who comes into the country, but he's being really offensive and people aren't hearing his real points. They're only focusing on his negative comments. 4) A Christian? Maybe. A good Christian? No. Just because you go to church and believe in God doesn't make you a good Christian. You need to live a positive, non-judgmental life (or at least make an effort to do this) which he is not doing at all. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	I have no idea how I will be personally affected or if I will be affected if Trump is elected president. I'm guessing that my individual life may not change much if any with the exception of taxes potentially going up. I think Trump would cause taxes to go up because of his plan to increase border and immigration controls and restrictions. The biggest benefit of a Trump presidency is security for America and a focus on improving our economy and hopefully our outlook over ALL. If he is smart, He will delegate the task of " making America Great Again" to others who can do just that and appoint the key people as military, security, economic advisors and finally, a trustworthy person just to help him keep himself out of trouble with the media and others. Trump knows how to work the legal and tax systems in place and how to take advantage of loopholes in the law and constitution. My hope is that he will use these skills to help make America Great again. The biggest risk of Trump as president, would be whether he can keep his cool in confrontations with other world leaders in order to prevent WWIII from being unintentially ignited. There is also the risk that Trump will find every way possible to benefit himself and his own businesses at the expense of taxpayers. Christian? He may be a Christian by default, since he's not Muslim or Jewish or Hindu or Buddhist or whatever. He supposedly doesn't drink or smoke or do drugs and believes in a "Higher Power" but his over the top lifestyle (including multiple marriages and divorces) of excess and lack of moderation and well, "slick" if not "slimy" exterior does not reflect anything Christian to me. If he were in the military and had to put a religious affiliation on his dog tags, I would expect it would be stamped Protestant Christian and that's about it, the extent of his faith as I see it. Donald Trump a Christian? Are you kidding? What's in his heart may be very different, but from what I have seen and heard, I don't think Donald Trump could pray his way out of a paper bag!

	➢	Well its little scary to think if he becomes president.  I think it will give more hate groups power.  I have 2 half black children and a Puerto Rican husband and a child with him .so who knows what craziness he will start.  I find no benefit for him to be our president.  He couldn’t even run his own business how can he run our country?  Bankruptcy after bankruptcy.  He treated his employees like crap.  We will have a lot of problems with other countries if he wins. Our military will be fighting everyone.  More money wasted on war.  No I definitely don't see him as a Christian.  His wife isn’t good enough to a first lady.  Naked pictures playboy.  No not tasteful at all.

	➢	I believe Trump would create more jobs and hopefully help come up with a better healthcare plan. He is no stranger to power so I don't see him giving into special interest groups. The biggest risk is his temper. As a powerful person he does not like to be told "no". I worry he might get nasty with another world leader. There are many people who believe in God and say they are Christian. He admits to only going to church on the big holidays but even a lukewarm Christian is still a Christian. I cannot judge his personal relationship with God, only his actions. He does not portray Christians in a very good light right now with some of his hate speech. Hate is not what we are about! [You speak of power, and I wish to explore that word with you. What do you find about Trump's power reassuring or not? How do you see this power impacting his effectiveness as President? I understand you believe Trump does not portray Christians in a good light due to his hate speech. Why do you believe people are associating Trump with Christians, even though his actions and words do not necessary follow Christian beliefs?] Trump's power in the business world would be an asset in negotiations but I’m not sure of what he will do if the Senate or Congress tell him no! He would have to tone down his personality and work with them. He claims to be a Christian but doesn't act the part. The United States has been condemning Christians for years ever since the big wave of being politically correct. Christians are accused of being hateful to homosexuals and other religions. So any excuse to pin more bad behavior on "Christians" the better...at least in the press. 

	➢	I think if Trump becomes president we will be in a war in less than four years. Also we will lose a lot of our alias just because he is so blunt. He is not one to not say how he feel. It will affect a lot of government programs. Meaning welfare social security benefits. I am on ssi due to seizures. I'm terrified that my insurance will be affected. The biggest benefits would be he would try to cut back on the refugee's coming in our country. And he would make it harder for people to get government benefits. I fought for four years for mine. I find it very annoying when someone comes from a different country and gets welfare right away. The risks are being at war. He has a don't give a damn attitude and a leap first without thinking about it first. Also assignation someone trying to kill him. He again speaks like he is predijust. I think he would bring terror attacks from other countries and it would be a mess. As for him being Christian he doesn't act like one. A Christian is to be Christ like he is far from that.

	➢	As a celebrity, Trump was amusing. I used to watch the Apprentice for the first few years. Being the president of the United States is different though. He is rude and crude and offends everyone. If he is elected, how will other countries see us? Will we become a joke or will people be so offended by him that they stop dealing with us? These are things that may not seem to affect my day to day, but they will definitely affect my life. It is scary to think how much power we may give him! The benefits of a Trump presidency seem to be few. Hopefully, he will get things done that have not been done. He does not think like a normal politician as he is not one, so hopefully he will see things that need to change and do them. I hope he creates jobs and takes care of Americans. He has never been afraid to speak his mind, so I hope he will use that to America's advantage. That being said, he is dividing the nation with his speech. He is racist and sexist and against immigration-the very thing that this country was built on. I am praying that he is acting this way and exaggerating his personality in order to get attention during the election process. I really don't think he thought he would get this far, but now he does not want to lose. I am not sure he really wanted to be president! I hope that if he is elected, he will settle down and be a business man again. If Donald Trump says he is a Christian, I have no way of knowing if he is or not. I cannot see inside his heart. I pray he is and that he begins to act like one. I pray he believes in Jesus and that his heart is softened to this country and what we need. He needs to listen to his Creator and use wisdom in his choices. As of right now however, I do not see him acting like a Christian.

	➢	If Trump wins, I believe the country in general will change a lot. I see him as running the nation as he would a business. The rich will become richer the poor will become poorer. I will become poorer. He seems to be all about money. I think if he becomes president there will be a huge reform with the welfare system which may be good, it could potentially stop those who are abusing the system. However, it could also hurt those who really do need the assistance. I do not see Trump as a Christian. He is like most American's who claim to be Christian but are nowhere near what the Bible would describe as Christian. Trump has offended many with things he has said, when he speaks he does not show a Christian attitude of love for others. Just because a person claims to be Christian does not make them a Christian.

	➢	I don't know how I might be affected if Donald Trump wins the presidency. I would hope that the economy would be stimulated and that the whole economy would basically pick up. This would change my life. As I mentioned before, we have a business and all of the relevant parts of this business are still around waiting to be picked up. The only thing we lack is customers. If the customers come back, then I can start building towards a middle-class existence again. Perhaps my husband would be able to quit his low-paying service job. That is how I hope it would be affected. And if not that then I hope that I would pay less in taxes because we are making just less and less and less every year for the past several years now.

	➢	The biggest benefit to that Donald Trump could give me is to restart the economy so we can be in control of our lives again and run our own business as we desire to. This country needs a middle class. Whatever needs to be done to bring it back this should be done as soon as possible. Otherwise more and more people are just going to be in my position.

	➢	The biggest risk with this President, is the same as it is with any president. And that risk is that we will get into a long expensive War with another country. The ultimate nightmare scenario would be nuclear war. No I don't think this would happen. But nobody thought that we were going to go to war with bush W was elected. That was a big surprise. You just never can know.

	➢	I am unaware that Donald Trump professes to be a Christian. This is news to me. I suppose he feels he has to say that and I understand why. Most people in this country or Christian or at least they think they are. I do not know if he is a Christian or not, truly. I am no reader of hearts. It is not up to me to judge him as a Christian because Christians don't do that. I would have to read about it his experiences as a Christian and at least see what he has said about being a Christian before I could answer this. But no matter how much I read or study the issue, again, I can't read his heart and I don't know if he is a Christian and as for me I am reserving judgment.

	➢	If Trump wins the presidency, it's hard to say exactly how that would affect me personally.  On one hand, I live in a southern border state, based on his stance on illegal immigration, I may see differences in how our borders are maintained, which could mean more security in my state.  On the other hand, he is a rich business man, and I worry that he can't relate to a blue collar family like mine, and that will show in how he handles taxes and healthcare.  I feel like foreign policy is a big risk with a Trump presidency.  Trump has a strong presence, most people either love him or hate him and he doesn't seem to care either way.  I worry that he could make the wrong people angry and cause a strain in our relationship with other countries. Donald Trump's faith is very hard to read for me, it's easy to call himself a Christian, but he's blunt and opinionated and doesn't apologize for that.  I question whether a man that would call a woman a dog on national tv, has any faith at all. [Many individuals have stated that they believe Trump's actions and behavior could lead the US into conflicts with other nations and cause homeland security issues. What are your thoughts as to why individuals still find him as an attractive candidate even though he could lead the US into the situations you described?] I think people just find him different!  He's not polished like other politicians, he's not rehearsed, he has knee jerk reactions in public forums and people relate to that.  I also think many people mistake his bluntness for honesty.  They think because he presents himself the way he does, he must be telling the truth. 

	➢	I don't know if I will be personally affected if Trump wins the Presidency, but I suspect that my job in education will be affected in terms of policy. I also suspect that my health care costs may be affected. The biggest benefit of a Trump Presidency would be the possibility of a more balanced budget. The biggest risk that I see is the possibility of his foreign policy (or lack thereof) becoming a security hazard for our nation. No. I do not see Trump as a Christian. I think he puts people down, talks in circles, and is not trustworthy---none of those things point to Christianity for me.

	➢	I think I would be personally affected if Donald Trump wins the election in several ways.  First, I would feel safer because I trust him to secure the border and take a stronger stand against ISIS terrorists and other radical Islam.  Second, I hope he would improve the economy through more conservative economic principles and that could result in improved wages through growth of the economy.  Third, I would expect him to appoint more conservative Supreme Court Justices and this would result in me feeling more comfortable with the outstanding court cases and any unforeseen court cases.  Lastly, I would anticipate he would balance the budget and begin deficit reduction and this would improve my children's future which brings me some comfort. The biggest benefits of a Trump Presidency is he has a history as a successful businessman and CEO and I suspect this experience could be good for America.  He also has indicated he plans to take strong stances on immigration and terrorism and this is definitely needed in our country.  He has a Spiritual Advisory Board and I think this will benefit him in his selections of Supreme Court Justices.  Also, the country will benefit from his pro-America stance in all areas. It could also be a benefit that he is an outsider when it comes to Washington politics and he has never dealt with lobbyists or special interest groups. The biggest risks of a Trump Presidency is what I just mentioned as a possible benefit---he has never held a political office before and does not have a record for us to judge.  I am concerned that he has donated to Democrats in the past and I am also concerned he will be willing to negotiate on issues that he should take a hard stance on.  Another risk is how he is going to be viewed by other governments.  He has made big promises to the American people and he will need to work hard to accomplish them if elected. As I said in a previous post, man cannot judge the heart of man, only God.  However, Scripture also tells us you can judge a Christian by the fruit he produces.  Donald Trump has professed that he is a Christian.  My concerns is that he said he has done nothing that needs forgiveness.  For me, the first step to a saving relationship with Jesus Christ is to admit that you are a sinner, born into sin as stated in Romans that "all have fallen short of the glory of God." This concerns me about Trump's testimony.  However, I recently read James Dobson describe him as an immature Christian.  I know from my own personal relationship with Christ that I have matured through sanctification by studying God's Word.  So, is he a Christian? I'm not sure but I do pray he has a saving faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.

	➢	With a Trump presidency I don't see my life changing much.  If he does his job right, life should carry on without him being in the news much. I think one of the biggest benefits of a Trump presidency is that the Obamacare legislation will be revisited and revised. I also think he'll address Islamic terrorism. One of the biggest risks of a Trump presidency is that he'll go back to being a loose cannon and continue to insult people. I know he claims to be a Christian, a lot of people claim the same thing and use it as an umbrella term, but I don't see him that way.

	➢	I doubt I will be personally affected if Donald Trump wins the election. I might be disappointed by my fellow Americans, but I'll be disappointed by them no matter who wins this election because of the candidates. I live in a smaller town where things stay much the same and do not work in a position likely to be directly affected by the outcome. I think the benefits to his potential presidency could be the changes to our health care system. He sees the flaws in Obamacare and as someone whose employer sponsored health insurance tripled as a result, I would like to see changes! As a married couple household, I also see the benefits to lower taxes on working families which would be funded by higher taxes on high incomes. I can also see the benefits of his stance on a waiting period for guns and banning assault weapons. I see the risk of his presidency as him. I think he is very tactless and cannot imagine hi putting his ego aside to do what is best for our country. I feel he would be a risk in his behavior toward presidents, diplomats and high ranking officials of other countries. I don't see him as a Christian. Some of his statements (i.e. About banning Muslim immigrants and sending illegals away) speak to his not having a heart for Christ. His personal life with multiple divorces and remarriages also speaks to him not following.

	➢	Today I have such mixed feelings about Donald trump my feelings surrounding him from the past up till very recently has been impacted by the turmoil and lack of respect I've witnessed. I watched his speech last night in Ohio and was flabbergasted at his attitude I reach my children to respect others and respect difference of opinion what has unfolded I've the last few days in real time and the commentary on social media is distributed death threats personal attacks ... How I'll if affect me I don't know how it will at this moment in time -- a non-Washington perspective business success fresh ideas biggest risks ... His dismissiveness of inappropriate actions comments and his kinship with white supremest groups they feel as if he is speaking in code to them and he hasn't strongly condemned them .... So it's s concern if he takes that attitude into the White House in would like him to consenteste on issues they are affecting my and others do is we him as a Christian .... Yes, but not necessarily a man of strong faith. [I understand you watched Trump's speech in Ohio and have mix feelings about him. As the election continues, what would you need to hear or relate to from either of the candidates to feel more reassured? You believe that Trump is not a man of strong faith, does this belief impact you significantly or are other risks more impacting?] The thing is if he is a man who respects and practices faith it has become increasingly difficult to observe that .... I need to see integrity and a shift in the tone it's difficult to get past this excessive vitriol and consider the real issues facing the country .... I think faith AIDS you at time like this so I would need to see along with traditional positions on issues facing the county and the world a concrete demonstration of Faith's tenants  

	➢	I think I would be affected by a downturn in the economy, as his ideas regarding economic protectionism will only harm the United states.  I think the biggest benefit of a Trump presidency will be a decrease in terrorism.  The biggest risk would be to the economy and to conservatism as a movement or faction of the Republican party. Whether he's is Christian or not is purely between him and God, but as the bible says, he will be judged by his fruit.

	➢	I think that he might cut Medicare benefits, because he's all about the wealthy people like himself.  This will affect myself as I'm disabled, also my parents as well. the biggest benefit would be that he would work on keeping illegals from coming into our country, which would save the government a ton of money. I think the biggest risks would be him cutting the benefits of SNAP, Medicare and medical benefits for kids and low income people. I believe that Trump is saying he is Christian because of the majority of the people in the US are Christian.  That way he will appeal to more people to get votes.

	➢	I do not see Trump as a Christian, because of his actions with his tweets. [If you believe that Trump says he is a Christian because the majority of the people in the US are Christian, how does that make you feel? Does it bother you? I understand you do not see Trump as a Christian because of tweets, is it just his tweets you find unchristian or other forms of communication he has used?] I'm not happy about that myself.  However, he’s not pulling the wool over my eyes.  That is so fake.  Trump on his show was horrible to the non-celebrity people on it.  There's a way to say things and then there's a way to say things.  He wasn't kind to those people.  

	➢	How do I think I will be affected with a Trump presidency...Although he is not my ideal, I think my life will be affected positively from his victory? He will strengthen the military, and as a US Army vet I understand how and why this is so important. I think the economy will grow stronger under a leader who wants us to flourish rather than die (like the current resident in office) 2. The biggest benefits to a Trump presidency: a. Economy awakens b. Military strength c. control over our borders d. less authoritarian political correctness 3. The biggest risks of a Trump presidency: Other countries will see we have a strong leader b. He is temperamental, but FAR LESS temperamental than the queen of Hell herself named Clinton c. He will ruffle political feathers and shake things up 4. Donald Trump describes himself as a Christian. There are two types of Christians - Surface Christians and Deep Christians. He, of course, is a surface Christian. But so was I until 5 years ago, and even though my faith was somewhat weak, I do believe in God and tried to be a good person. That's about where he is, I think. Trump does not cometo the presidency after spending 20 years listening to an evil devil-inspired demon like Jeremiah wright who hates white people like Obama did. He is also more a Christian than the current resident in office, who was raised as a Muslim (this is detailed in his book, this is not me just bloviating).

	➢	When and if Donald Trump wins (and I am hoping he does) I will feel safer knowing he is in charge of taking care of our country's security and wellbeing. He isn't afraid to fight back. We need someone in office that will stop giving away tons of money that this country could use for our own. We take better care of people in other country's than we do our all and he'll do away with that. The only risks that I can see is the GOP not uniting with him. A lot of government people don't like him because he's going to shake things up in Washington. Yes, I do believe Donald Trump is a Christian, he's a good husband, father, and business man. He wouldn't have gotten this far in life if he wasn't a man of God. [Hello again, I believe people are afraid of Trump shaking things up in Washington because of his language and behavior. What do you say to those individuals who believe Trump will shake things up, but are concerned of how he will do it?] I think that by the time he gets to Washington he will have the best advisors who will advise him to tone it down. I am hoping he shacks up Washington but I'd like to see it done right. I believe he knows he should and he has gotten better but he's not really good at it yet.


Activity 6: Trump Statements/Faith Ideas
We are now going to show you some statements that different faith leaders have made about why they do not support Donald Trump. Please read each and tell us what you like the most and least about each one. Highlight areas that especially stood out to you.  

"As Catholics, we are called to serve others through compassion and love. Mr. Trump has shown us that he has different priorities, he seeks to enrich himself and become even more famous. He spends little time serving others and gives very little to charity."  

Catholic Women

Things You Like

	➢	I agree with the statement. I don't think his main objective is to help the country as much as it is for more attention for himself

	➢	It’s true as Catholics we r called to serve others. But isn’t that a little hypocrite coming from a catholic church who has had a lot of problems with their own leaders and priests

	➢	"As Catholics, we are called to serve others through compassion and love. He seeks to enrich himself and become more famous. I agree that Trump is most concerned with Trump and how he is perceived by others. He wants to do what he thinks most people will agree with to enhance his own image.

	➢	I liked how it opened that for Catholics we are called to serve others because as a Catholic that is something I strive for each day in not only my attitude but also my actions.

	➢	I don't really like anything about it, but if I had to choose it would be the part about him giving very little to charities. I think that he would serve better promoting different charities than just giving and being yet another well-known name on their walls. [What about giving to charities do you like? If Trump gives to charities, is he not representing good Christian values by giving to others?] I like giving to charities because I am helping a worthy cause that means something to me. In some instances, that help is given through a monetary donation and in other instances I volunteer my time. I think we should think of helping charities with a mix of time, talent and treasure. If Mr. Trump gives to charities it is a start, but he is still missing giving of his time and talent.  

	➢	"We are called to serve others" is a statement that resonates with me.  We can only get what we want in life if we help other to get what they want.  As Christians we are to always have a servant mentality.

	➢	I really like the entire statement. "He seeks to enrich himself...He spends little time serving others and gives very little to charity." Those points really stand out in showing Trumps lack of outward Christianity.

	➢	What I most like is that it is saying that Catholics should not support Trump.  It's pointing out his self-centeredness and lack of caring about others.

	➢	I don't know how to go about highlighting certain areas, but I agree with the part that was mentioned about him seeking to enrich himself. He is just the type that is "out for himself."

	➢	Like: seeks to enrich himself, spends little time with charity.

	➢	I know that Pope Francis had disagreed with Donald Trump on political policy making. I am a Catholic and I respect Pope Francis but I did not appreciate a religious leader interfering with his views on how to make policy within our nation.  I thought that the Pope needs to stay out of politics and stay governing the church where his speciality lies.  If a political leader asked for the Pope's advice then that is another side to the story; however, I think the Pope overstepped his authority.  On the other hand, I am interested to know more about charity contributions made by Donald Trump.   He does employ a number of workers and he has created opportunities for employment.  It would be nice to hear more about if he has contributed to worthy causes.  Perhaps he has but we are not aware of his works of mercy.

	➢	I felt that this statement described Mr. Trump very well, as it spoke of his selfishness and how is priority is "himself" rather than helping others.

	➢	Highlighted area: Mr. Trump has shown us that he has different priorities, he seeks to enrich himself and become even more famous.

	➢	I believe Catholics are called to serve others through compassion and love. This stood out to me because this is how I try to live my life.  I agree that Trump seeks to enrich himself.

	➢	I completely like the whole statement.  What really stood out is that he seeks to enrich himself and become more famous.  I am not sure what he gives to charity and I really don't care.  This has nothing to do with running the country.

	➢	Since I am Catholic the statement ""As Catholics, we are called to serve others through compassion and love." This is what I try and stand for in my daily life. With all the things happening now days with riots and killings it is time to show compassion for each other big time now days.

	➢	As Catholics we are called to serve others through compassion and love.

Things You Like Least

	➢	There is nothing I don't like about the statement

	➢	I am a catholic but get so turned off by the way it always comes down to money for them. So what he doesn’t give to charity. Is it because he doesn’t give to them? [I understand your point that if Trump does not give to charity, it is because he does not give to charity. If Trump did give to charity, would that not demonstrate he has a priority to give to the needed and the less fortunate compared to not giving? How do you believe Trump should demonstrate his priorities?] I just don’t beleive that giving to a charity is a priority. Some people are generous and give and some people are not I don’t think people should be judged on that.    

	➢	I like all of this, there is nothing I dislike.

	➢	As a Catholic the lack of compassion is what stood out to me too. Although like I mentioned before it's hard to tell if this is really him or just a skit in order to get more media time and getting his bold suggestions across the country. And also he did donate a large sum of money to the veterans during one of his campaign stops which I believe was Iowa or Indiana, one of the I states.

	➢	I don't like how it states that he enriches himself and he wants to become even more famous. I do not think that is true. I think he sees a problem in the system and wants to fix it, not become more famous. He seeks to win supporters, not fame. [If Trump does not want to become famous, why does he believe he will gain support by speaking the words he does?] I think he is saying what some people want to hear to win supporters.

	➢	I totally agree with this statement so there isn't anything I don't like about it.  It speaks the truth.  What I don't like are the facts presented.  While Trump does donate to charity, a majority of it flows through his own Foundation.  Based on his wealth the amount he donates is minimal. Trump is not interested in really helping others unless it promotes his own agenda.  He supports groups or organizations if, and only if, it will benefit him in the long run.  For example, he will support groups on opposite ends of the spectrum if he thinks it will get him votes.
	➢	I liked the whole statement. Nothing stood out in a bad way.

	➢	What I like least is that it does come out and directly criticize his lack of service and charity. [why do you not like that the statement directly criticizes Trump's lack of service and charity? What do you feel would have been more appropriate?] I feel that being critical of anyone is poor judgement. I agree with it; I just wish there'd been a better way to put it.

	➢	I like the entire post and agree with all of it. Nothing I like least.

	➢	What do they mean by different priorities?

	➢	I would like to see the whole picture.  How much has been investigated and researched into charity work or supported causes by Donald Trump.  Yes, the Catholic church supports a lot of service related activities, yet at the same time the Vatican, it's banks, real estate, artwork and other possessions amount to a great deal. Some of these investments if put to good use could help feed a 3rd world country.  I think that the Catholic Church and its hierarchy need to stay out of the facets of politics and take a closer look at not being so judgmental in their views against women's rights, gay marriage and birth control. etc. I take offense at this statement.  Recently our local archbishop made a statement about refusing divorced couples, gays and others the ability to receive communion at mass.  He basically was shunning certain groups of individuals.  This is real hypocrisy in the making.

	➢	I would prefer that if this statement were made, it could be backed up with actual data. I would like to know the amount or percentage that he does donate. Without actual data, this statement is meaningless. Highlighted area: He spends little time serving others and gives very little to charity."

	➢	I don't like that Trump doesn't give much to charity.  However, I haven't fact check that.

	➢	Even though I was raised Catholic I find it hypocritical of the church to say something about Charity.  All through my life my family was always asked to give money even if they could not afford it.  In fact, we used to have a church book that came out every month and every family in the parish received.  All the names and addresses were listed and how much they gave weekly; this was to embarrass the people to give more so their neighbors would not talk.

	➢	He seeks to enrich himself and become even more famous. He spends little time serving others and gives very little to charity. These statements stand out to be as this seems to be the core of Trump's personality. Mr. Trump has shown no proof at all as to what charities he supports or has given his time to. Mr. Trump has not shown his tax statement so he seems to be hiding how much he is or is not worth and what companies he does support. Mr. Trump is an actor at heart and you can tell that he loves to hear himself speak. At the debates he would hardly let anyone else talk by either interrupting them or shouting over them. He is rude when he talks to people and he if he becomes president only the rich will benefit as he has made it clear that he wants to cut taxes for the rich.

	➢	He spends little time serving others and gives very little to charity.

"From the moment we accept Christ, we are called to serve others through compassion and love. Mr. Trump has shown us that he has different priorities, he seeks to enrich himself and become even more famous. He spends little time serving others and donates little to charity."  

Millennial Evangelicals

Things You Like

	➢	I like the truthfulness of this statement. (Male)

	➢	I have found from experience that statements like this early have the whole picture taken into consideration when stated.  Add to this that many people try to incorrectly characterize others who don't fit their specific mold of what a "Christian" should be.  I think Trump could be characterized in a similar fashion.  There is no denying his financial success; with a net worth of $4.5 billion, so say he has enriched himself would be an understatement.  As far as donating to charity, that is a slippery slope:  I conduct many charitable acts that go unpublished and unrecognized; this is how I want it to be.  I would imagine Trump does similar things, especially on the scale that he is able to operate at. (Male)

	➢	To be completely honest the entire thing was spot on! The point that stood out most for me is "we are called to serve others through compassion and love." Anyone who has been watching Trump can see he has shown nothing of that sort. (Female)

	➢	I like that we are to serve others through compassion and love as those are Christian values should abide by. Spending little time serving others and donating little to charity goes against those values. (Male)

	➢	I think that this statement started off nicely, but took a bad turn. I do not think that Trump has different priorities. I mean, to be become more famous? Really? If he wanted to do that, then he would make another Trump tower. I think that he genuinely wants to make this country better, maybe even the way that it was before. (Female)

	➢	I think this is a true statement. I think Trump is supremely concerned with himself and his brand. I don't think he cares about serving others. (Male)

	➢	"From the moment we accept Christ, we are called to serve others through compassion and love." I like this because it embodies the best part of Christianity, which is kindness and love. (Male)

	➢	I like this statement: From the moment we accept Christ, we are called to serve others through compassion and love. I agree, although I don't think that statement covers it. It's an ideal, but it also isn't required of anybody to be a Christian. All that is required to be a Christian is to accept Christ. (Female)

	➢	I like that they are right about our calling as Christians. We are called to serve through love and compassion. (Male)

	➢	I like most that this statement draws out the responsibilities of a Christian; the title "Christian" isn't just something you can throw around; it carries a weight. (Female)

	➢	The part of the statement that resonates the most with me is in how Trump seeks to enrich himself to become more famous. I agree with the last sentence of the statement as well because I cannot think of many ways that Trump has served those less fortunate than him. (Male)

	➢	Christ did teach us to love. This passage points out Trump's selfishness and selfish ambition. Trump fails to obey this command completely Do nothing out of selfish ambition or vain conceit. Rather, in humility value others above yourselves, Philippians 2:3 NIV http://bible.com/111/php.2.3.NIV (Male)

	➢	I definitely agree he verbally shows different priorities from love and compassion, and that he certainly seeks to "enrich himself." Those are good phrases to use. (Male)

	➢	I completely agree with this. Serving others in a Christ-like behavior and Trump is only interested in his own gains. (Female)

	➢	I agree that he does spend little time serving others. Christians are called upon to take care of those who are in unfortunate situations, and to show compassion to everybody. For someone in a financial position to be able to show compassion, Mr. Trump sure isn't displaying any of these Christian values. (Female)

	➢	I agree with the statement that Christians should show compassion and love. (Female)

	➢	From the moment we accept Christ, we are called to serve others through compassion and love. This stood out to me most because it is true and the basis of our faith in a sense. (Male)

Things You Like Least

	➢	It is not just about serving Christ Trump is not even a moral individual regardless of religion or lack thereof. (Male)

	➢	I find that this whole statement could be researched and found to be false.  I would be more inclined to believe that this statement was meant more to polarize public opinion than to guilt Trump into being more outward in his charitable activities.  I would want more facts to be presented before a statement like this would sway my opinion of the candidate. (Male)

	➢	There isn't anything about that statement that is not true and that I do not like. (Female)

	➢	There is nothing I Ieast like about this statement other than Donald Trump's actions that warrant these statements. (Male)

	➢	I do not like the fact that this statement bashes Trump and says that he has ulterior motives for the presidency. (Female)

	➢	I don't think donation to charity should be a benchmark of one's faith necessarily. (Male)

	➢	"He spends little time serving others and donates little to charity. I dislike this statement because I feel that one does not necessarily need to donate to charity in order to be a good Christian, they merely need to give their time to others in some way, or to be charitable via other means. (Male)

	➢	I did not like this statement: Mr. Trump has shown us that he has different priorities.

	➢	I don't like this statement in conjunction with the previous sentence. It's very high-handed and self-righteous. I would prefer the person to criticize Trump if they would on issues such as "enriching" himself, trying to be "famous", or not giving money to charity on their own terms. They do not need to connect them to Christianity specifically. Or suggest Trump isn't being a good Christian. It is also too close to implying a "good works" salvation theory in order to attack him. Primarily I dislike the high-handedness of it though. Christians need to stop coming off as so arrogant. (Female)

	➢	I do not like the fact that I do not know if this person is right about Trump. I don't know how much he donates to charity, serves others in his personal life, or loves those around him. And I don't know if the person making this statement knows that either. (Male)

	➢	I like the least that this is an extremely accurate statement; I wish there wasn't so much truth to it. (Female)

	➢	No parts stood out to me as areas that I disliked. I will say though - I agree with the statement overall, but part of me recognizes that we should not judge the lives of others so strongly. Very few people know Trump personally, so it's possible that there are ways that he helps others that we may not necessarily see. (Male)

	➢	Too wordy (Male)

	➢	I don't agree that "From the moment we accept Christ, we are called to serve others through compassion and love." Yes, we are called to do that, but not exclusively through charitable donations, and primarily we are called to do that by sharing the gospel with other people. (Male)

	➢	I cannot find something I dislike here, besides the fact that the man being discussed is a presidential candidate. (Female)

	➢	"Mr. Trump has shown us that he has different priorities." Priorities are something that come as a result of your core beliefs. Compassion would come naturally if he were a true Christian. This man is not a believer. Don't give him so much credit. (Female)

	➢	Just because Trump doesn't put down on paper that he gave money to this charity or that charity doesn't mean that he doesn't do things to help people. I don't think anyone can comment on that unless they live in his shoes. (Female)

	➢	he seeks to enrich himself and become even more famous. He spends little time serving others and donates little to charity. I do not like this statement because it is a personal attack. I think he does do things for charity and is looking to improve the country, not enrich himself. (Male)

Evangelical Women

Things You Like

	➢	He seeks to enrich himself and become more famous. He spends lil time serving others donates little or nothing to charity.

	➢	"From the moment we accept Christ, we are called to serve others through compassion and love is very true and that is something Trump really needs to work on but then again we all have to work for it.

	➢	...We are called to serve... The best thing I can do is take this part of phrase out of context.  The whole statement needs reworking.

	➢	It is hard to say what I like most about this statement, since it is true. We are called to serve and help others, and Trump does the opposite. I like the point that he seeks to enrich himself. That is too true, unfortunately.

	➢	From the moment we accept Christ, we are called to serve others through compassion and love. Mr. Trump has shown us that he has different priorities, he seeks to enrich himself and become even more famous. He spends little time serving others and donates little to charity." I liked the whole thing

	➢	This person is a hypocrite. I don't like anything that he says. I don't know who this is and I've never heard this before. I am completely unimpressed. This person is not a Christian and I would not listen to him. True Christians do not judge one another and this man is no reader of hearts.

	➢	I agree that as Christians we need to show love and give more.

	➢	I feel like this statement is spot on.  Especially the part about seeking to enrich himself and become even more famous.  I do believe that someone running for any public service should strive to serve through compassion and love.

	➢	I agree with the statement because I agree with the statement that we are called to serve others through compassion and love.

	➢	It is true as a Christian we are called to serve and love others. I believe it is also true that Trump seeks to enrich himself. The area which stood out is what is expected of Christians, and from comments Trump has made demonstrated he does not treat others with compassion.

	➢	From the moment we accept Christ, we are called to serve others through compassion and love. --- I like this because this agrees with what I read in the Bible.

	➢	The part I like best about this quote is the first sentence.  This is the thing that stood out to me most in this short paragraph.

	➢	I like that he calls out Trump's flaws, donating little to charity and serving himself instead of others as well as not showing compassion to others.

	➢	I would have to say with regards to this statement that there is a vein of truth in so much as I am increasingly witnessing a very self-centered candidate with a clear lack of respect he makes fun of people

	➢	I don't like anything about this, and I don't believe those statements are true. Donald Trump has and does donate plenty of money to charity's. I have read articles from families who are in need due to either health or job reasons and he has taken care of all of the expenses. I believe he is a very smart man and a lot of people are jealous of his success.

	➢	I believe that the statement is true about when we accept Christ, we are called to serve others through compassion and love.   This is what stands out for me.

	➢	This sounds like someone who is passing judgment. Maybe this person has not heard that there are none so blind as those who cannot see. How convenient they are not presenting facts about: * Obama sat in Jeremiah’s white-hating church for 20 years * Obama’s do not donate much to charity either * Clintons lies lies lies

Things You Like Least

	➢	I like it all

	➢	He spends little time serving others and donates little to charity I do believe he gives large amounts to charity the charities can be founded online.

	➢	Well I really don't like the statement at all as it sounds like something a speechwriter who doesn't have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ would write to sound like or appeal to Christians, but is well, not correct. I believe it would be more accurate to say: From the moment we accept Christ we begin to be transformed and answer the call to wholly serve Him, by serving others by showing them His compassion and love. I'm sure there are plenty of "do gooders" or highly ethical people in the world who serve others with compassion and love, but that in itself, does not make them Christian or even G-dly people. "Mr. Trump has shown us different priorities " different than Christian? Different than what I want or believe as a Christian or Citizen? Moms show different priorities. What does this mean?  He seeks to enrich himself and become more famous.... So? Who are we fooling? Every person who runs for president has to see it as a way to enrich themselves, but a desire to become more famous is laughable especially with Internet, television media and of course, You tube. He spends little time serving others or giving to charity.... I have no idea or way of knowing if this is fact.  He may donate anonymously. He may have his children handle his charitable donations. He may simply choose not to publicly announce it. It's a common saying among Christians though " if you want to know what a person really believes in, look at their checkbook" or in a businessman's situation, look at his financial accounts. The statement as a whole just needs rewriting. And if it is going to be published, there should be data to back up the accusation that says trump doesn't serve others or donate to charity.

	➢	The fact that Trump donates little to charity is devastating to me. As someone who has much less and tries to give a lot, I hate to see someone be stingy with all they have been given. We are put here to be a blessing.

	➢	That he doesn't have a personal relationship with the voters. He seems cold. To be Christian he is supposed to be like Christ he isn't

	➢	It's so judgmental. God is the judge. Let's let God be the judge or Jesus rather let Jesus be the judge.

	➢	Trump is a selfish man. He does seek to better himself. I heard he is a Christian and I'm not questioning his relationship with Christ. I believe Christians should show more love than we are seeing from him.

	➢	I am curious about the comment on charitable donations, I’m not saying it's not true, just that I will be researching it further.

	➢	I do not like the point of him donating little to charity, because I don't always feel that donations should be monetary in nature.

	➢	The part I liked least is the statement that he spends little time serving others and donates little to charity. I don't know enough about him to know if this statement is true. It might be, but from my perspective of being unsure about it I would just like more information to validate the statement.

	➢	he seeks to enrich himself and become even more famous. He spends little time serving others and donates little to charity--- This concerns me because it does not reveal spiritual maturity or spiritual fruit.

	➢	What I like least is that it makes a judgement about enriching himself and wanting to become famous. I don't know how true that is.

	➢	I don't care for the judgements tone.

	➢	I think it's an extreme assessment in think he has whom concern for other and has donated so that seems a bit harsh and extreme

	➢	Not true

	➢	I'm not sure if he donates to charity or not.  I'm not too sure about that statement.
	➢	I would need to know who said that statement to really know if it was absolutely true.

	➢	I think this is a poor, misguided somewhat ignorant soul who should try to open their hearts and minds and not be so corrupted by the Clintons and Obamas' evil greed. I will not highlight anything because it's all pretty bland, untrue and originated by a low-information voter. I will pray that they will become more informed.

"When asked about Mr. Trump Pope Francis said quote a person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not Christian. This is not the gospel."  

Catholic Women

Things You Like

	➢	I agree with him saying that building walls isn't the Christian thing to do.

	➢	In the society we live in there’s a lot of things not Christian terrorist threats and so on

	➢	We know trump said he wants to build a wall bit will congress back him probably not but he has a point with all the illegal immigrants in our country It is time to stop them from coming in

	➢	"When asked about Mr. Trump Pope Francis said quote a person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not Christian. I agree with this to a point. I don't think we should exactly be having everyone and anyone come over here, but we should also not completely stop people from coming here either.

	➢	I don't really like anything about the Pope's statement. He sounds very contradictory in it actually. The Pope should have never been recorded saying this and it be shown internationally, it just makes him look foolish.

	➢	I like that it talks about building bridges. In order to build bridges sometimes we need to build walls first to build bridges the proper way. [How would we need to build bridges the proper way? What does that entail and do you believe Trump is capable of building that way?] You need a strong foundation to support the weight of a bridge properly. There are times when the bridge can be at its maximum capacity and if the foundation isn't strong enough, it then collapses. Trump seems focused on building walls and I haven't determined yet if he is capable of somehow using those as a foundation for bridges. Perhaps Pope Francis will eventually have an impact on him.   

	➢	When asked about Mr. Trump Pope Francis said quote a person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges is not Christian. This is shows that people of faith think of compassion and friendliness and helping others other then being oppressive and not willing to compromise and finding a working solution to problems is for sure not a true Christian.

	➢	I liked the analogy of building bridges not walls.  Building bridges can take a long time but it is well worth it in the end.  Bridged promotes civility among people and show a desire to collaborate.  Walls are barriers and offer no hope for a future.  With walls you lose the ability to connect and work together.  Walls promote segregation and hinder growth.

	➢	"A person who thinks only about building walls...and not building bridges, is not a Christian."

	➢	I like that it talks about building bridges and showing people what Christian living should look like.

	➢	I like the idea of building bridges as was stated in that paragraph. I'm afraid Mr. Trump will cause problems for us with other countries with his idea of building walls.

	➢	...and not building bridges is what stood out.

	➢	I do feel that the issue of legal and safe immigration is an important one to be discussed. Many other countries have limits on immigration numbers. Our country needs limit too.  When we have our own citizens unemployed and without proper housing, healthcare and education then it doesn't make sense to add illegal immigrants above our own citizens. I do agree with the words of building bridges and that is certainly a more positive way to approach the problem. Perhaps a combination of setting boundaries but also paving a way for communication is a better approach. Legal status and immigration accomplished through the right channels is the method to bring many different cultures into our country and have us work together for a common cause. I do not think that the approach Pope Francis took with Donald Trump was much better for condemning him.

	➢	This is a very powerful statement, and it makes me laugh, that the Pope would make such a true statement about someone. Very strong statement, showing Donald Trump’s weaknesses.

	➢	Highlighted area: Pope Francis said quote a person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not Christian

	➢	I like that that the Pope said he should be building bridges. I don't really like anything about this statement.  Why is he talking about the gospel?

	➢	A person who thinks only about building walls, wherever they may be, and not building bridges, is not Christian. This is not the gospel. If we constantly are trying to close off our hearts and push others aside, we are not helping. We hurt more people this way. I like how Pope Francis makes it a point to not talk down but turns it into a lesson we all could learn from. He makes statements that we can all relate to and use to better ourselves. He wants the world to change for the better. Pope Francis truly understands the world is changing and we need to grow with it not away.

Things You Like Least

	➢	I think that people may take him a little too literally about building a wall.  He is just saying that he wants to be tougher on immigration

	➢	This is not the gospel Seriously. Who follows the gospel. Our society today does not live by the gospel

	➢	I don't like This is not the gospel. It seems like it doesn't fit in with talking about a politician. It is not relevant.

	➢	The Pope is a bold man himself expressing ideas that not necessarily have to be heard and is also making bold remarks and accusations inside the church walls too so if anything the Pope is in a way kind of like a Trump inside the Catholic Church. The fact that the Pope insinuates Trump isn't a Christian isn't very Christian in itself.

	➢	I don't like that he said that he is not Christian and that it is not the gospel. He identifies with Christians and acts morally according to his own teachings and beliefs and values. It may not be in the gospel, but the teachings are meant to give us things to think about. [What about the gospel do you believe is not/or is relevant to this statement?] Thinking about the Samaritan in the gospel from this past weekend the teaching that we should think about is, who is our neighbor? Do we pass them by or do we show mercy and help? Mr. Trump follows his own teachings and values.

	➢	I did not like the indirect suggestion that Trump is not a Christian.  Whether he is or isn't is not for us, even the Pope, to decide.  We are not called to judge our fellow man.  Only the individual knows what's in his own heart.

	➢	The only bad part of the statement is the language/writing. I had to read it several times to completely follow the statement.

	➢	I dislike that it focuses on the gospel. [why do you dislike that the statement focuses on the gospel? What about the gospel do you feel is relevant or not relevant for this statement?] I feel that specifically focusing on the gospel might drive away a less faithful audience. Keep things focused on the morals and convictions most believe in. Christians know that they are based on the gospel.

	➢	This complete statement even tho not in words does kind of say that if were building walls and not bridges then were not Christian which means were evil. I think the statement the Pope says has an underlining meaning. [What do you think is the underlining meaning of this quote? What is your reaction to your interpretation that if were building walls and not bridges then were not Christian?] Were not Christians if were building walls and not spreading the word of God and treating people with respect. If we have wall around the US, then we are not able to help the less fortunate or even learn from other cultures. I think it would be shameful if the US built any walls and I would be embarrassed to say I was an American.

	➢	It made me more sad knowing how little people who have the means to change things and help don’t. Their priority is for themselves and their compassion for human life is very limited.

	➢	I don't really care if it isn't the Christian thing to do. More importantly it isn't a smart thing for a man who considers himself intelligent and worldly to contemplate doing.

	➢	I would like further reference in what is being implied...that he does not play well with others?

	➢	One again, I think that the Pope overstepped his boundaries. There seems to be a very large and secure structure built around the Vatican.  I think that the pope needs to mind his own business when it comes to politics. Is this not why we have separation of church and state?

	➢	There is nothing in this statement that I can say I liked the least. Pope Francis, commented on Donald Trump, and I feel it is a very valid comment from Pope Francis.

	➢	I understand that Donald Trump, did not like this comment, but the Pope has a right to express his opinions.

	➢	I don't like that he wants to build a wall.

	➢	I think the Catholic church should stay out of politics.  Just because the Pope said it doesn't mean it is true.  Talk about walls, the church has the biggest one built around their wayward priests.

"Christ taught us that we should treat others as we want to be treated, but Mr. Trump does not follow the Golden Rule. He bullies opponents, women and minorities and says it is a sign of strength, but as Christians we recognize the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated. "  

Catholic Women

Things You Like

	➢	We should all treat each other the way we want to be treated. No one likes a bully

	➢	Christ taught us that we should treat others as we want to be treated, but Mr. Trump does not follow the Golden Rule. He bullies opponents, women and minorities and says it is a sign of strength. This is a very good statement as it shows that Christians are a loving and trusting group that just want to get along and live the way Christ wants us to and then comes someone that wants to tear up family values and tear people down if they are not just like him.

	➢	Christ recognized the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated. He was kind and giving without ever wanting in return. It’s not up to us to judge others but to support.


	➢	"Christ taught us that we should treat others as we want to be treated, but Mr. Trump does not follow the Golden Rule. He bullies opponents, women. I totally agree with this statement and I think it is important for everyone to respect each other, even if they are President.

	➢	I do agree that Trump is bullyish in quite a few of his comments but it's so hard to tell if he's making them for the cameras so they stay on him versus those are his actual opinions. I think right now it's all for attention as a child would who wants the lollipop. But in reality he has made quite a difference in his supporters and the Make America Great Again hats were a huge hit and made in the US so he actually was doing what he was professing and brought back a job to the US.

	➢	Not following the Golden Rule stands out. It is sometimes necessary to not follow it because sometimes harsh action is needed to make full changes for the good.

	➢	We should all live by the Golden Rule and treat others as we would want to be treated.  If our world was more like that one can only imagine how much crime and violence would disappear.

	➢	"He bullies opponents, women and minorities and says it is a sign of strength, but as Christians we recognize the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated."

	➢	I like that it invokes the Golden Rule which almost everyone understands and points out the importance of treating others as we wish to be treated.

	➢	I believe that it is true that he is a bully, he likes people to be afraid of his power.

	➢	He bullies opponents.... Just watch the exchange between he and M. Kelley. He deferred an answer and attacked her. He has no filter. I think that this statement is true. I agree that Trump bullies his opponents and speaks openly about gender and race in an offensive manner that is unbecoming to a leader of a country.  He should treat others with more respect and stand up for what he believes in through a more effective and civil manner.  He can be motivating, yet at the same time he needs to be more sensitive to what is deemed appropriate behavior.

	➢	I like that they show how Trump is not a very good guy by showing how he breaks the Golden rule

	➢	I liked this description of how Trump is portrayed as not following Christian Ideals. This is an extremely true statement of how Trump has behaved during his campaign, which is not flattering to him.

	➢	Highlighted area:  He bullies opponents, women and minorities and says it is a sign of strength

	➢	This is my mantra.  This is what I say every day to children.  Treat others as you would want to be treated.

	➢	I agree that Mr. Trump does bully people he feels are not as good as him.  He does not treat others as we want to be treated.  According to Christian doctrine he is certainly not following the rule.  Treating others respectfully should just be something everyone does, not just because of the golden rule.  He loves to make fun of people and that is a sure sign of someone we would not want to be around, let alone be President.

Things You Like Least

	➢	It’s true he does bully the opponents. But all elections in the past they bullied each other. He does take it to the extreme. He says what he wants. But should think a bit before he speaks

	➢	I don't like the part where it says Trump bullies’ minorities, because I only think he is trying to bully illegal minorities. [I understand you believe that Trump is only trying to bully illegal minorities. How does the statement change if it were reworded to state Trump only bullies "opponents, women, and illegal minorities?] I don't really think Trump bullies women. I do believe he bullies opponents and illegal minorities, so if those two groups were included, I would like the statement better.

	➢	I liked everything that this statements says and stands for so there is nothing that I disagree with or even least disagree with.

	➢	The fact that Trump bullies and puts down women and minorities. I don’t see that at all as a sign of strength. A strong person wants to build others around him up not bring them down. That’s not how you unite people, this is how you divide them. Without a strong home front, you have nothing.

	➢	I never heard Trump say that his bullying is a sign of strength so it'd be interesting to see what speech that came from. My guess is it was misquoted because I can't imagine anyone gaining strength for putting others down.

	➢	The fact that he bullies opponents women and minorities stands out. He is not the only one to play bully. Each politician plays a bully to others in the candidacy in order to get and gain more support. It is not solely him.

	➢	I dislike that Trump thinks bullying opponents are a sign of strength.  This behavior is exactly the opposite.  This behavior is a sign of weakness and lack of confidence.  I find myself wondering where he learned this and why he thinks it's okay.  I have to believe one or both of his parents exhibited similar actions.

	➢	It's a great statement that really highlights how screwed up Mr. Trump's thoughts are, demeaning people and calling it a strength. He's just a big bully that aged, but never grew up.

	➢	I dislike that it starts and ends with the exact same phrasing.

	➢	I thought the whole statement was correct and I agreed with it. Nothing to like least.

	➢	Nothing, really.

	➢	I have to ask, why is the pope being so judgmental?  Why doesn't the pope meet privately and discuss his issues with Trump before making such public statements?

	➢	I agree with the whole statement so there is nothing I don't like about it

	➢	I feel this statement is weak and should be replaced by a more powerful statement. It just doesn't fit with the rest of the statement. I feel it is more important to show how Trump bullies those he feels are weaker, than to just comment on importance of treating others as we would like to be treated. Highlighted area: but as Christians we recognize the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated. "

	➢	I dislike how trump thinks it’s a sign of strength by bullying others.

	➢	I don't think he admitted to bullying and saying it is a sign of strength.  That would be so wrong and I don't think many people would vote for him if he did.

Millennial Evangelicals

Things You Like

	➢	This is also very true as Trump does nothing but personally attack those that he does not agree with it is our job to be moral and upright citizens. (Male)

	➢	This is another example of Trump not necessarily acting like some would like him to.  I'm no outright Trump advocate, but I do think he gets mischaracterized often. (Male)

	➢	The part that stand out to me is what I have said in this study before. "He bullies opponents, women and minorities and says it’s a sign of strength, but as Christians we recognize the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated." He is not a moral individual nor is he civil, he is exactly as the statement suggests, he is a bully. (Female)

	➢	I liked the phrase of following the Golden Rule. Trump, obviously, does not follow this. (Male)

	➢	I like that it recognizes the Golden Rule. I try to live by that every day. (Female)

	➢	I like that this statement is honest. I think that Trump has not treated others as he would want to be treated. In fact, he gets very upset about any negative comment towards him but dishes out negative comments toward others constantly. (Male)

	➢	"Christ taught us that we should treat others as we want to be treated, but Mr. Trump does not follow the Golden Rule. He bullies opponents, women and minorities and says it is a sign of strength, but as Christians we recognize the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated. "

	➢	I like this entire statement because I feel it describes Donald Trump to a tee. (Male)

	➢	I like this statement: Christ taught us that we should treat others as we want to be treated.
	➢	I agree with it. It's a beautiful principle. I like the fact that it portrays being a bully and mistreating women or minorities as wrong. (Female)

	➢	I like pretty much everything about this statement. Whoever said it is right about the golden rule, and they are also right that Trump doesn't always follow that rule (Male)

	➢	I like especially that this statement draws out why it’s wrong for Trump to bully others and speak so poorly of women and minorities. (Female)

	➢	I think this speaker makes a good point and sums up the idea I tried to communicate in my blog post regarding Trump not displaying the traits that one would expect from a follower of Christ. The part that reads "[A]s Christians we recognize the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated" stood out to me the most here. (Male)

	➢	This accurately describes some flaws in Trump's character. (Male)

	➢	I agree, "Trump does not follow the rule" and I also agree, "we recognize the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated." (Male)

	➢	I agree with this statement. Christians are called to a higher standard but I believe what Trump lacks is basic human kindness. He does not demonstrate compassion. (Female)

	➢	I like what it's saying. Christians are supposed to show compassion. We are not to pass judgement to those who are not of the Christian faith. The guidelines for life outline in the Bible are for those who follow Christ, not for those who are unbelievers. (Female)

	➢	I completely agree with this entire statement. I highlighted this earlier when I said that Trump appears to be very judgmental. (Female)

	➢	Christ taught us that we should treat others as we want to be treated. This statement is correct and this is how we should live. (Male)

Things You Like Least

	➢	There is so much more than the Golden rule that should direct us and lead us to living a good life and giving and helping others. (Male)

	➢	This is z completely subjective statement presented as fact to give off a certain image or impression of a candidate. (Male)

	➢	I don't disagree with anything in this statement and I do not dislike this statement. (Female)

	➢	Again, this goes with what I have stated about Trump. It's not what I least like about this statement. Rather, it has more to do with me not liking that a Christian is making these statements. (Male)

	➢	I do not like the fact that they are concentrating on all of the bad that Trump has done, but what about all the bad that Hillary did? I mean it only concentrates on one party. At least Trump is upfront about it. (Female)

	➢	There is nothing about this statement that I don't like! (Male)

	➢	There was nothing that I disliked about this statement. (Male)

	➢	I strongly dislike this statement: as Christians we recognize the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated. The speaker has drawn a contrast between Trump and Christians as a group, including subtly identifying all Christians as morally superior to Trump, which is very arrogant and high-handed. Criticize Trump on his own terms, for being a bully or what have you. That's fine, and well deserved. But don't bring Christianity into it. Not all Christians behave well. That doesn't mean they aren't Christian. By very definition, a Christian is a sinner who needs Christ. What do sinners do? The hope is that he would have enough spiritual maturity to try to improve, but that's for him and his spiritual friends/advisors to work out--not for someone else to point out to the public in direct relation to Christianity. Criticize Trump for racism or being a bully, but don't go further than that. It's also not acceptable for someone to use Trump's behavior in part as an excuse to make themselves look better (the speaker clearly classifies himself/herself as one of the Christians who recognizes the importance of treating others well, implying that they always do). This comes off as self-righteous and disgusting. It provides a horrible image to the public. (Female)

	➢	I really don't disagree with this statement at all. Trump can certainly be a bully from time to time. (Male)

	➢	I like the least that this is such a true statement. (Female)

	➢	There is nothing about this statement that I dislike. Again, possibly a bit judgmental though. (Male)

	➢	Cliche, cookie cutter response, everyone knows this already. It seems as though the speaker has his own interests in mind and is seeking to further his own endeavors. (Male)

	➢	Overall, this statement has an undertone of "good deeds theology" and not only does that not sit well with me, it really is not Biblical in the context of the Gospel. (Male)

	➢	The worst part about this statement is the truth of it. (Female)

	➢	I don't like that this person is expecting Trump to follow the Golden Rule. He is clearly not a Christian; so why would he need to follow anything the Bible says? (Female)

	➢	There is nothing that I like least. The whole passage is spot on. (Female)

	➢	He bullies opponents, women and minorities

	➢	He has said things aggressively but, has also stood side by side with women and minorities. This statement is a bullying one in itself. (Male)

Evangelical Women

Things You Like

	➢	He doesn’t follow golden rule.  He bullies woman, minorities. The Golden Rule. Very true he does not treat people with the respect he expects to receive from everyone else. That has always bothered me. His daughter seems to be a nice person which surprises me as he talks about women so badly.

	➢	Not exactly fully correct. Read Matthew 22:34-40 Christ teaches us the Greatest Commandment: "Love the L-rd your G-d with all our heart and soul and mind" "Love your neighbor as yourself." All the Law and the prophets hang on these two commandments. To accuse Trump of "not following the golden rule" or bullying just sounds silly and petty. This is Politics, it's dirty and grubby and absurd and disgusting and immoral. Besides, if someone is going to throw some accusations, then there should be facts to back it up.

	➢	The Golden Rule is so simple we teach it to our kids, and yet Mr. Trump cannot seem to figure that out. If we are kind, others will be kind.

	➢	I don't know what to make of this statement. I sort of need to know who this is. The best I can say is everyone has an opinion and everyone is entitled to their opinion.

	➢	This statement has very little to like. The facts are true and sad.

	➢	" Mr. Trump does not follow the Golden Rule. He bullies opponents, women and minorities" So true! I would hope that any person elected to represent this country at the very least could follow the golden rule!  In the few times I have watched him on tv I've noticed the bullying, and it's the main thing that has put me off of him as a candidate.

	➢	Christ taught us that we should treat others as we want to be treated...Mr. Trump don't treat people with respect but wants to be treated....

	➢	I like the fact that it addresses Christ's commandment to us as a guiding principle of life.

	➢	Here it is pointed out that Trump bullies opponents, women and minorities which obviously goes against the Golden Rule. I really don't like much about this statement though.

	➢	as Christians we recognize the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated. ---there is "some" truth in this statement but the Golden Rule is often taken out of context.  First, we are to love the Lord God with all our heart, soul, and strength.  This is almost too simplified.

	➢	What I like best about this statement is that I think it expresses Trump's biggest weakness. I think there's a big difference between sticking up for yourself and being a bully.

	➢	What I like is the principal the ideal we can strive for not always attain but make the effort .... And if late I think the description of being w bully is an accurate description regrettably

	➢	I appreciate the comment about bullying minorities.

	➢	I don't like anything about it.

	➢	I agree with the whole statement.  He really does bullies his opponents. Christians as well as me agree with the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated.

	➢	Right. And Clinton takes money from sharia law lovers who mutilate women, stone women who are raped, and kill gay people. Maybe they should focus on that which is a little more relevant than bullying opponents.

Things You Like Least

	➢	I don’t see anything

	➢	There is nothing about this statement I don't agree with.

	➢	What I like least is that it mentions Christ just enough to get my attention, but the way it hits me is like a person who wants to try to impress me by using big words or intellectual jargon when they have no idea what they are saying. You need a good experienced writer with real Christian Faith to write this, otherwise it just doesn't matter to me. It's like the writer is using just enough reference to Jesus Christ to get me to look at it and get on their side, but not enough substance to keep me there.

	➢	The part I like the least is how he bullies women and minorities. This country has come too far to have someone come along and destroy the efforts of decades. We have had enough grief and heartache to take that all away in a year's time.

	➢	I don't know what to make of this statement. I sort of need to know who is saying it and what their agenda is before I can judge it. Everyone has an agenda, sadly. Even the survey seems to have an agenda. It would be nice if these statements were labeled with the speaker.

	➢	We do not need someone who is a bully. Americans have been bullied enough.

	➢	"but as Christians we recognize the importance of treating others as we would like to be treated. " While following the golden rule is important in dealing with opponents, women and minorities, he does send a clear message that we are not going to stand back and allow people to outright harm us.  There is a big difference between being compassionate and allowing yourself (or your country to be victimized)

	➢	I like everything about this statement

	➢	I don't know that there is anything that I dislike about the statement.

	➢	To me this statement implies Christianity is all about the Golden Rule. This is only one small piece of what it means to be a Christian. The entire statement seems overly focused on treating others as you would like to be treated. I think the more important teaching of Christ is to love God with all you heart, soul, mind and spirit, and to love others as yourself. A bit more in depth than just treat others as you want to be treated.

	➢	Christ taught us that we should treat others as we want to be treated, but Mr. Trump does not follow the Golden Rule. He bullies opponents, women and minorities and says it is a sign of strength.  ---- Christ did not teach us to treat others the way we want to be treated.  He taught us I said above to the love the Lord above all and to love others the way Christ loves us.  That is a self-sacrificing, dying on a cross love to save you.  It is more than just how you yourself want to be treated.

	➢	What I like least is probably the same thing - the truth that that this statement expresses. He can't possibly be the Christian he claims to be while being a bully and insulting people.

	➢	I think although I embrace the Patrice and essence of the golden rule I think it may be an unrealistic standard in this context

	➢	I am not a fan of how this is worded, it as though the speaker seems as though he feels like he is a better person than Trump but that isn't for us to decide.

	➢	I least like everything stated.

	➢	Nothing because it is all true.

	➢	I dislike that this person is ignorantly hiding the truth about the lying Clinton machine. This stands out big time. I suppose this ignoramus would also accuse Jesus of bullying gamblers in the Temple.

"As Christians, we are taught to protect the least among us, but Mr. Trump stokes fear of the most vulnerable among us for his own political gain. He has pitted people against refugees fleeing persecution and undocumented immigrants seeking a better life. We should follow God’s teaching of compassion and mercy toward others, not banishment and persecution."  

Catholic Women

Things You Like

	➢	We should follow god’s teachings. Yes, I wish we could. When I was a little girl and being raiser catholic it seemed to be a much calmer world. Today it’s hard to change a society that is sooo cruel

	➢	"As Christians, we are taught to protect the least among us, but Mr. Trump stokes fear of the most vulnerable among us for his own political gain. I do think Trump puts himself before all others.

	➢	I don't really like anything in this statement other than half of the last sentence. "We should follow God's teaching of compassion and mercy toward others". So many so called Christians talk the talk but refuse to walk the walk because that's where things get uncomfortable and people aren't willing to get messy or involved which is the true sadness.

	➢	I like that he has pitted people against refugees fleeing persecution and undocumented immigrants. Even though they are fleeing and seeking a better life, some may have ulterior motives when entering the country, such as the bombers and drug trafficking.

	➢	Protecting the least among us resonates with me.  There are those who cannot or choose not to protect or defend themselves for various reasons.  The areas that come to mind are children and women of domestic violence and abuse.  As citizens we have to become more educated to recognize these issues and report them accordingly.  Compassion and mercy was shown to us by God and we should in turn show that same compassion and mercy to others.

	➢	"He has pitted people against refugees fleeing persecution and undocumented immigrants seeking a better life." What kind of man hits a person when they're already down? I like that it talks of protecting the least among us and points out how Trump has done the opposite.

	➢	I liked what was said about Trump going after the vulnerable members of society, he does.

	➢	We should follow teaching of compassion/mercy.

	➢	Refugees are being turned away in Europe and many other countries.  The US does not have to be the only sanctuary nation.  I think that there needs to be a balance between protecting our nation's citizens and also allowing vulnerable groups into our country.  We need a balance of vetting suspected terrorists while also helping unfortunate refugees. The pope explains Christian principles well but I do not think it was appropriate in brandishing such rhetoric.

	➢	I like that they point out how he has pitted people against each other for his own gain. I think there is a better way to handle the immigrant problems

	➢	This is the most powerful passage in this statement. I like the lead-in to the next statement: "He has pitted people against refugees fleeing persecution and undocumented immigrants seeking a better life."
	➢	Highlighted area: Mr. Trump stokes fear of the most vulnerable among us for his own political gain.

	➢	I am a Catholic so I believe many of the statements. I believe it is unchristian and un-American like of us not to allow refugees and immigrants into our country.  However, we have a flawed system right now that we need to fix first.

	➢	One of his strategies is to put fear in people.  Unfortunately, a lot of people agree with him.  We should show compassion and mercy towards others but we cannot be foolish and just let everyone into the county

	➢	We should follow God’s teaching of compassion and mercy toward others, not banishment and persecution." This is a very good way to live and to think that someone would think otherwise is just not a moral person. My family tries to live our daily lives with compassion for others.

	➢	We should practice more the teachings of compassion and have mercy towards others, instead of banishment and persecution.

Things You Like Least

	➢	That he strokes fear. I’m not sure if it's fear I think a lot of people stand by him because they feel he will make a change and we will feel safer. Yet others do feel he destroy our country

	➢	We should follow God’s teaching of compassion and mercy toward others, not banishment and persecution." This might be going a little overboard because I don’t think Trump is persecuting anyone.

	➢	Trump isn't the only one tackling the refugee issue just look at Brexit! They left the union for a major reason they are tired of the rules and regulations they had to uphold in regards to refugees. I don't think it's fair to judge Trump on trying to protect his country from foreigners when other countries are trying to do the same. If we let everyone in because they want to we are jeopardizing our citizens and creating division among people because even though all this citizen wants to save the refugees when they actually do arrive who takes care of them, feeds them, establishes them? It's not the liberal organizations it’s the private mainly Christian ones setting them up in refugee set ups.

	➢	I least like that he stokes fear of the most vulnerable among us for his own political gain. He stokes fear because there is reason for fear. We have had mass shootings, bombings, etc. and nobody currently does anything to stop this. It is not for political gain. It is the truth. [I understand you believe Trump is speaking the truth when he says people need to fear, how do you think he is going to bring about subduing that fear when some people believe he purposely wants to make people fearful?] I don't know if he is capable of subduing the fear that he himself has stoked

	➢	Refugees fleeing persecution and undocumented immigrants are some of the least among us and Trump should not use these people to promote his political agenda.  The least among us includes all people not just Americans.  While I do understand his argument I don't like his methods.

	➢	There's nothing I dislike about this statement. It is true and so sad that Mr. Trump does stuff like this. These kinds of statements hopefully will help his followers to see the truth of the evil man behind the actions.

	➢	I dislike nothing about this statement.

	➢	I don't agree with Muslim immigrants being allowed into this country since some members of that group have been terrorists. I don't believe it is safe, and while I do believe in compassion and mercy for others, I don't believe in taking chances with that group.

	➢	Example or further reference for strong statement of pitted people against refugees...specifics? That is a broad statement.

	➢	I believe that the pope needs to stay out of politics and administer to religion and church dealings. If he only knew how exclusionary his bishops have become in their own dioceses and how cover ups on banking and sexual molestation has impacted enrollment in parishes, schools and churches then he would be concentrating more on church issues rather than politics. Perhaps the pope needs to open the Vatican and house refugees instead of interfering in politics. I think that a private meeting with the Pope and Trump would have been productive.

	➢	I don't agree that we shouldn't persecute or banish illegal immigrants. If they come here illegally they should be sent back to where they came from and try to do it legally

	➢	I felt that this was a little overdoing it. This is a powerful statement without this passage. Highlighted Text:  God’s teaching of compassion and mercy toward others, not banishment and persecution." [What makes it too much?] I felt this was too much "Religion" and that is what made the passage stand out to me. I feel it should not be included, period. As for what would be better, I feel anything, that does not promote "Religion" would be a better choice. Too much focus of religion is a turnoff to voters. [What makes the part you highlighted too much? What would be better?] I felt this was too much "Religion" and that is what made the passage stand out to me. I feel it should not be included, period. As for what would be better, I feel anything, that does not promote "Religion" would be a better choice. Too much focus of religion is a turnoff to voters.

	➢	I don't necessary believe he is pitting people against each other, he just says what he believes in. [I understand you do not believe Trump is pitting people against each other, but you also state he says what he believes in. If Trump believes in what he says, he wants to pit people against each other, or he is just using strong language and does not mean it, what should individuals believe? I am curious as to your thoughts.] I understand you do not believe Trump is pitting people against each other, but you also state he says what he believes in. If Trump believes in what he says, he wants to pit people against each other, or he is just using strong language and does not mean it, what should individuals believe?   I believe he is using strong, and sometimes forceful language and by the nature of that he is creating a divide amongst people.

	➢	I don't think some of the people coming from the middle east are the most vulnerable.  We have plenty of poor people right here who are citizens and we do not show much compassion for them.  I don't see many people from the middle east homeless.  They come here and right away get all kinds of benefits.

	➢	Mr. Trump stokes fear I find it hard to believe that one person even Mr. Trump has the power to cause fear for much of anything even for political gain. I think people are tired of politician and their lies and not being able to get anything done that some people think Mr. Trump would be good for the country but as time goes on people will see him for what he is, a bigot with a lot of money. [Hello, why do you find it hard to believe that one person has the power to cause fear for so many?] I guess I have to retract that statement because look what Hitler was able to do for years and to thousands of people. I guess looking back through history a lot of dictators were able to harm or kill millions of people. Good thing the US is not a dictatorship and limits the power of the President because Trump might be able to pull off some of the things he wants to do like build a wall.

	➢	How easy it is for people to pit against others who need help. Everyone is seeking a better life. We have to be compassionate towards others and know not every situation is the same. There is a reason people reach out for help. It is not right to turn our hearts away from those who need it most.

Millennial Evangelicals

Things You Like

	➢	The ideas about building a wall and banning Muslims is not a moral one but it is preying on the fears and insecurities of the weak and those who already hold prejudices (Male)

	➢	Immigration is a hotly debated topic, and for good reason.  The United States operates on a system of contributing to the greater good, many times at one's own expense.  Most citizens are happy to do this; taxation goes to many programs designed to protect those down on their luck and give a hand-up to those who what to get back on their feet.  It becomes much harder to support such programs when many who draw from its benefits have not, cannot, and will not contribute back to it.  In a world of finite resources, difficult decisions have to be made. (Male)

	➢	"Not banishment and persecution" (have compassion and mercy toward others). (Male)

	➢	I think I am going to agree with all the statements given. I do not support Trump in any fashion. The part I liked most was, "He has pitted people against refugees fleeing persecution and undocumented immigrants seeking a better life. We should follow God's teaching of compassion and mercy toward others, not banishment and persecution." what kind of place would we be if we turned down someone trying to make a better life or someone who's religion would get them killed in their homeland. (Female)

	➢	I like that it ushers towards compassion and Mercy, rather than banishment and persecution. I honestly believe that the undocumented immigrants should get their green cards. I mean they are literally here illegally. (Female)

	➢	I like that this statement is honest and true to reality. I like that it points out the fact that Trump plays on fears. (Male)

	➢	"As Christians, we are taught to protect the least among us, but Mr. Trump stokes fear of the most vulnerable among us for his own political gain. He has pitted people against refugees fleeing persecution and undocumented immigrants seeking a better life. We should follow God’s teaching of compassion and mercy toward others, not banishment and persecution." I liked this entire statement because I feel that it really strikes at the essence of sincere Christian belief and embodiment of" the Christian thing to do." (Male)

	➢	I like this statement. I agree: As Christians, we are taught to protect the least among us. I like that it recognizes that Christians are to care for the weak and broken. (Female)


	➢	I do agree that we should protect the least among us. We are to have compassion for others. But that is all that I agree with. (Male)

	➢	I like that this statement is mentioning the responsibility of a Christian. (Female)

	➢	I think the speaker does well in addressing two issues that are important, one being that Trump inspires and takes advantage of the fearful, and the second being that he demonizes refugees and immigrants. The statement "As Christians, we are taught to protect the least among us" does well to show how Christians should approach these issues. (Male)

	➢	This one is very true, Trump is filled with a lot of unnecessary hate. (Male)

	➢	Once again I agree with the basic statement, "we are taught to protect the least among us” and that, "we should follow God's teaching of compassion and mercy." (Male)

	➢	I love this statement. I truly believe the vulnerable need to be protected. (Female)

	➢	I like that they are saying that Trump needs to be more compassionate. He hates groups of people, simply because they have had a different and more difficult life than him. (Female)

	➢	We definitely shouldn't banish and persecute worthy people. I agree with that there. (Female)

	➢	As Christians, we are taught to protect the least among us. This statement of course should be followed by all Christians (Male)

Things You Like Least

	➢	I like all of this statement and how true a realistic it looks at the current issues surrounding drump (Male)

	➢	Not all immigrants are seeking a better life, and not all refugees are fleeing persecution.  These must be filtered out before damage is done. (Male)

	➢	Again, there is nothing I least like about this statement. These statements fall into line with what I think of Trump. (Male)

	➢	I think the part I like least about the statement above is that "As Christians, we are taught to protect the least among us...", I believe we should protect us all, everyone has something they are vulnerable about. (Female)

	➢	I know that Trump has done far too many bad things to count, I do not think that he was going against his faith, and to say such is blasphemous. I have said before that no one is perfect, and that includes Christians. I just think that there are people that have done far worse before. (Female)

	➢	There is nothing I dislike about this statement. (Male)

	➢	Again, there is nothing that I disliked about this statement. (Male)

	➢	I dislike this statement: We should follow God’s teaching of compassion and mercy toward others, not banishment and persecution. I think this statement does not take into the account the complexities of a very complicated issue. Yes, we are to have compassion on the weak, and do everything we can for them. But if we don't put an end to illegal immigration, the country will be weakened. Our cultural values are the basis of our liberty. Not all refugees want a democratic system, nor have the education to know how to preserve it even if they do want one. They need time to assimilate. Otherwise, we'd be overrun and not have our own country. And not having that country, a country with a free market system, etc... could reduce us to such a level of poverty that we wouldn't be able to help the poor the way we could in prosperity. I especially hate the conjunction of contrasting Trump with God and God's way. I dislike the person for identifying as being one of the followers of God's way in opposition to Trump. It's arrogant and heavy handed. (Female)

	➢	I do not like the person's views of these people. The "undocumented immigrants" are not simply that. They are illegal aliens. Illegal is the key word here. All around the world it is illegal to cross an international border without the proper paperwork. I am not against immigrants, but I think they should come here within the constraints of the law. As far as the refugees from Syria, I feel bad for them. But so many people in that region have been radicalized against us (not that I blame them). And unless we can safely discern a needy refugee from someone that wishes to do us harm we must proceed with cation. If I hand you 100 tic tacs and tell you that 5 of them are poison that will kill you, I doubt you will eat any. (Male)

	➢	I don't like that this statement is implying that protecting national safety is unchristian. (Female)

	➢	I dislike that the speaker implies that the most vulnerable among us are those who are easily manipulated by fear. I think that refugees are much more vulnerable, but agree that we should show compassion to those fleeing violence and hardship. (Male)

	➢	Is a bit one sided. (Male)

	➢	Once again this statement seems to have undertones of "good deeds theology," but it also really paints Trump as malicious in his own statements, but I think he really believes in his ideas and wants to try to better the nation. (Male)

	➢	I don't necessarily think all politicians need to be Christians but these traits are important. (Female)

	➢	The author seems to hold the belief that we should allow illegal immigrants to stay here. While I agree that we shouldn't just take all the illegals and ship them out, I also believe that they shouldn't just get away with breaking the law by bypassing the correct ways to becoming a US citizen. (Female)

	➢	This particular person is pointing specifically to people who participated in illegal activity. I believe in justice. God is a just God as stated in the Bible. These people can be sent to their home countries and enter the right way. It's not fair that they're breaking the rules and getting in before people who are following proper procedures. (Female)

	➢	He has pitted people against refugees fleeing persecution and undocumented immigrants seeking a better life. This statement is blowing things out of proportion to me. He will allow people into the country but, in a legal and documented way. (Male)

Evangelical Women

Things You Like

	➢	We should follow God’s teaching of compassion and mercy toward others, not banishment and persecution."

	➢	As Christians, we are taught to protect the least among us is true. I think he would help though in bringing jobs back to the U.S.

	➢	"As Christians we are taught..." Again, the use of " Christian" gets my attention, at least for a moment.

	➢	I agree that banishment and persecution are not the answers and do not show us as a compassionate nation. We are one nation under God, but he seems to be trying to destroy that.

	➢	I agree that "We should follow God’s teaching of compassion and mercy toward others, not banishment and persecution."

	➢	Keeping out immigrants is wise. I agree that until we can get a handle on terrorism no one needs to migrate to America.

	➢	"Mr. Trump stokes fear of the most vulnerable among us for his own political gain." I've seen this in his speeches too.  It does little for our feeling of security for someone to play on our fear.

	➢	As Christians, we are taught toWe should follow God’s teaching of compassion and mercy toward others, not banishment and persecution." protect the least among us,

	➢	I like the point of following God's teaching of compassion and mercy towards others. I try to live this way in general, not just to those that are "less" than me, and I think our President would do well to try to live the same way.

	➢	I do like the part about protecting the least among us, although it's not worded exactly like that. We are to care for widows and orphans, and give to the poor. I'm not sure how immigrants fit into this context.

	➢	As Christians, we are taught to protect the least among us; We should follow God’s teaching of compassion and mercy toward others --- I like this most because God does want us to show compassion and mercy and especially to those who are the least among us.

	➢	What I like most about this statement is the first sentence. We as Christians should protect and help the least among us.

	➢	The part about Christ teaching us to protect those less fortunate speaks to me. I think this is an important piece of Christianity and it is something lacking in this campaign,

	➢	Nothing.

	➢	What appeals to me most is the reference to whet the bible teaches us and

	➢	Refugees fleeing persecution should stay in their own part of the world where their views are more familiar and secure. Good for Trump for seeing that. Let's do follow God's teaching and fight against sharia law female mutilation, justified gang rapes, and slaughtering gays and Christians -- Actually these are among the people who are flooding the Clinton’s accounts with funding! Someone PLEASE tell this misguided person being quoted about the real horrors behind the evil liar presidential candidate.

	➢	I agree with we should follow God’s teaching of compassion and mercy toward others. I also agree that Trump is a bully for his political gain.

Things You Like Least

	➢	I wouldn't say I don’t like anything.

	➢	I don't believe he is against all immigrants. I have legal Immigrant friends who are angry about others taking shortcuts and not paying taxes. They waited and did it the right way and think others should also. I also think some immigrants like Muslims are to be watched. They are causing so much trouble not just here but in several countries. We would welcome them if they would not be as violent and outspoken on their hatred of all other religions.

	➢	Again what I like least is that the writer has used Christian to get my attention, but doesn't seem to be Christian and it just comes off awkward after reading and rereading. "Mr. Trump stokes fear...." This is just political rhetoric and or posturing. The whole idea of a political campaign is to affect people's emotions, love, hate, fear, sympathy etc. If a candidate cannot find a way to affect and connect via emotional commentary, then why would anyone bother to listen? Again use of "G-d's teaching" to get my attention as a Christian. I do not know if any of the accusations are 100% correct. I would like to see some facts or documentation after accusing Trump.

	➢	Anyone who "stokes fear of the most vulnerable among us for his own gain" should not be put in a position of power. God put us here to take care of each other, and Trump does not see that. He wants us to be afraid of people who need our help.

	➢	Isn't this person now stoking fear, also?  Anyway, who wants a bunch of immigrants ruining things for the rest of us?

	➢	I don’t see Trump bashing immigrants but trying to get a hold on immigration.

	➢	"He has pitted people against refugees fleeing persecution and undocumented immigrants seeking a better life." This is just as damaging as the previous statement about stoking fear but in the other direction.  The refugee crisis and the illegal immigration issue is such a difficult situation.  There is evidence that they pose a very real threat to our security, it's happened already in other countries.  So romanticizing them in order to make a candidate look bad does nothing.  The irony is that if we look the other way, and allow them all in with no restrictions, and a terrorist slipped in or crime rates increased we'd all be blaming the president for letting them all in.  It's a no win situation.

	➢	How Trump does put fear in to people to get his points across that's not Christian like in my eyes

	➢	I don't like that it is vague in terms of how Mr. Trump has stoked fear in people. I would like more concrete examples.

	➢	I think someone has taken Bible teaching out of context to meet their own agenda. I am not against immigration, I do believe our country should handle it much better than it does, but technically America would not exist as it is today without the original immigrants from Spain and Europe. Again I don't know enough about Trump at this point to know where he stands on immigration or to know if the part of him pitting people against refugees and immigrants.

	➢	undocumented immigrants - I like this least because undocumented immigrants are breaking the law.  God has instructed us to follow laws unless it is not in agreement with his laws.  Also, undocumented immigrants are actually illegal immigrants.  Do I understand why they want to come to America? Yes.  Are their reasons sometimes noble? Yes.  But, God expects us to obey him and trust him in all situations.  This includes individuals who want to come to America, who need to come to America.  They have to trust God in their situation to protect them and bring them to America legally is that is HIS will.

	➢	What I like least about this is the truth it conveys about his stance. I definitely think the is s middle ground for us to stand on here. I think we should use wisdom together with compassion.

	➢	I don't care for the part that mentions pitting people against refugees as that seems to make them less than human.

	➢	By setting limits on immigrants he is protecting us. We as American's have to be safe, God only knows who is sneaking into our country to destroy us.

	➢	There is not much in this statement that in dislike

	➢	I despise the entire statement as it is against the lessor of the two evils facing our nation. Too bad the person stating this garbage is so closed minded. Please someone, show them the number of donations to Clinton’s campaign by leaders of countries where women are gang raped, mutilated, and gays and Christians are being buried alive. This person REALLY need so know.

	➢	I agree that we should deport refugees fleeing persecution and undocumented immigrants.  There are correct ways to enter the country and since we have that way to come in legally then I don't think Trump should bully people, but I do agree with deportation.

"Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect. But Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him, calls people names, and doesn’t respect the God-given dignity of others"  

Catholic Women

Things You Like

	➢	"Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect
	➢	This is sooo true We need to have more of this everywhere

	➢	"Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect. But Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him, calls people names. I agree with this statement and actually have said something similar to this to others.

	➢	I really like the part about treating neighbors with decency and respect. Trump does cross the line occasionally with his stupid insults such as the tiff he had with Kelly from the Kelly File however look at them now. They were able to work out their issues, if brought about by others or not and now are on the same team.

	➢	Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect. We should respect others' dignity because we each are given it and earn it. We need to acknowledge others and respect them. However, Trump is not given respect by other candidates, so it is natural reaction to lash back when your own dignity is insulted or crushed.

	➢	Dignity is given to us by God and no one should be able to take that away.  As Christians we are to uphold the dignity of others by treating them with respect and civility.  We should be able to disagree and even speak strongly without degrading each other.
	➢	7th Jul 2016, 8:06pm

	➢	"doesn't respect the God-given dignity of others." This is Mr. Trump's entire campaign in a nutshell.

	➢	I like that it says that Christians treat people with decency and respect.

	➢	He does insult others that don't agree with him. That's exactly was bullies and immature people do. Who wants a president that never grew up and acts like a spoiled brat.

	➢	Calls people names...he is big on that. Very spontaneous and appears unprofessional.
	➢	7th Jul 2016, 11:49pm

	➢	This statement is true.

	➢	I do agree with the whole statement. Trump acts like a child when he doesn't get his way.  That is one of the reasons people don't like him.  they assume that he will act the same way if we were in office when it comes to other countries

	➢	I felt this was a very true statement regarding Trump. Highlighted text: treating our neighbors with decency and respect. But Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him, calls people names, and doesn’t respect

	➢	Agree with this 100%

	➢	We absolutely should treat our neighbors with decency and respect.  We all should do it not just Christians.

	➢	"Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect." All neighbors and neighborhoods should live by these words as we would have less killings and crime.

	➢	Treating our neighbors with respect and common decency is important.


Things You Like Least

	➢	Trump call people names. That’s is true and offensive. Stick to the issues. No need to name call anyone. Minority or not doesn’t respect the God-given dignity of others" "God-given dignity sounds a little odd to me

	➢	I don't really understand this author's complaint that Trump doesn't respect the God-given dignity of others because that's more of an opinion versus a truth. Trump is speaking on what he believes to be true which to others they don't believe in such as building a wall or abortion. He has a blunt way of proposing and talking about ideas however what he believes should change in the country is how he how he's explaining his dignity of others.

	➢	Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him, calls people names, and doesn’t respect the God-given dignity of others. When Trump is not given respect by his other candidates and news press and even groups of people, it is natural to lash back because his dignity is in question. His dignity is what is at stake, so he may call people names because they hurt him first.

	➢	I dislike like that anyone feels like it's okay to degrade others that don't agree with them.  Juvenile actions such as insults and name calling are at a new low in this political arena.  The sad thing is that we have allowed it to escalate to a point of embarrassment for our country.

	➢	Yet again it's another true statement. There is nothing I dislike about the statement.

	➢	I dislike all of Trump's actions.

	➢	I agree with the whole post, nothing to like least once again.

	➢	No disagreement.

	➢	Why is the pope casting such criticism?  If the pope were truly concerned and thought that he could make an impact upon a future leader, why not meet privately, and discuss concerns. I liken this situation to a circumstance that arose in my daughter's school.  A principal openly humiliated a student in front of the class to make a point. If the principal had truly been concerned about the welfare, mental state and dignity of the student then she would have privately discussed the matter. Instead the administrator made a public display so that the student was made an example of.  Is the pope not doing the same to Donald Trump?  Is he not putting Trump to shame? [Hello again. I understand you believe the Pope and Trump should be meet privately to discuss their differences, but why do you believe the Pope has made such statements? What were his objectives? Do you believe they have significance with Catholics or do many see the Pope putting Trump to shame?] I think both the Pope accomplished both in making his statements pertaining to Trump.  I believe that the Pope wants Catholics to vote for Trump perhaps now but maybe not in the beginning when there were many more candidates to choose from. I think he wanted to take a position, express his opinion and shame Trump.  If he didn't want to shame him publicly then the Pope would have met with him privately first. Unfortunately for the pope and many fellow Republicans, Trump became the presumptive nominee and won over other options that they would have preferred. I think that the Pope outwardly stated his opinion because he may upset with a Republican acting in such a manner. Even though there are Catholics that belong to either party, the church in no way supports the liberal views around gay marriage, transgender rights, prochoice, stem cell research, living together prior to marriage and birth control just to mention a few.  Nevertheless, I think the church advocates more the Republican views on these issues. But who in their intelligent mind would advocate how Trump treats and marginalizes groups of people.  I will have more to comment on tomorrow based upon the mass visit I made today and what I heard the priest stating regarding gospel lessons and today's politics but I believe that what the church teaching is terms of how we should be treating people and how we should be unifying not excluding is true. It's just that I think the church is segmented too.  Not everyone from the pope, to bishops to priests and to the congregation are speaking the same language and supplying the same accepting and unifying message unfortunately.

	➢	I agree with the whole statement. Trump is very disrespectful of others when people don't side with him

	➢	I felt this was a powerful enough statement and the mention of "Being a Christian" and "God-given Dignity" could turn people off that don't have Christian values. Highlighted text: “Part of being a Christian" God-given dignity of others" [Hello, why do you believe "Being a Christian" and "God-given Dignity" could turn people off? Do you believe people with Christian values would be turned off also?] I don't like when political messages focus on "being a Christian" There are many Politicians who are Christians who are hypocrites. I believe that people with Christian values know they have them, and don't flaunt the fact they have Christian values. When you use phrases like "Being a Christian" it’s like your setting limits, and that makes me uncomfortable. I believe people with Christian values are put off by phrases like this, because your trying to label someone, to make them appear better than the next person, a "true Christian" doesn't behave in this manner.

	➢	I dislike that that is how Trump treats people.

	➢	I think too much emphasis is put on being Christian.  No one should disrespect others.  He is just an ignorant man, whether Christian or not.  Anyone with compassion would disagree with the way he talks.  Unfortunately, I don't think he is doing this just to win over certain people.  I truly believe he is an evil man.

	➢	But Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him I liked the complete statement but this one the least as it really has very little meaning as people that have listened and watched his campaign would know that is just Mr. Trumps personality. [Do you feel this statement is then not necessary if people already know about Trump's personality? What about those who support him and plan to vote for him?  "Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect. But Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him, calls people names, and doesn’t respect the God-given dignity of others”] If someone already been following Trump for the last year then they know that he has no respect for a large group of Americans and non-Americans. Trump has shown from his actions and remarks that he is a bigot and a racist. The people that are going to vote for Trump are people of little or no faith and have no respect for mankind as well.  

	➢	Trump insults those around him to make him look better. He has very little respect for people he himself deems weak. Wanting to help others does not make you weak hearted or soft. It makes you understanding and brave. Every life matters. It’s not gender specific or location specific. We as humans have to protect each other otherwise how are we expected to continue our legacy.


Millennial Evangelicals

Things You Like

	➢	As I have said in other statements this is how a feel he acts like a spoiled child who never received punishment or was ever reprimanded (Male)

	➢	Trump is a bit overbearing.  He speaks first and then thinks, in some cases.  This is not good for a politician with the power and authority of the President of the United States. (Male)

	➢	I liked the explanation of Christian values such as treating others with decency. (Male)

	➢	I think this statement goes along with the post about morality, and wanting a leader with moral values. "Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect." I think that this statement is very true, Trump lacks the decency and respect that is needed to become president. (Female)

	➢	I like the fact that it shows that he does not like those that disagree with him, but anyone can tell you that just by looking at his autobiography. (Female)

	➢	I like that this statement calls to fact that Trump is very disrespectful towards his critics. (Male)

	➢	"Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect. But Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him, calls people names, and doesn’t respect the God-given dignity of other." I feel that this statement really hits the nail on the head in terms of how most other Christians likely view Donald Trump. (Male)

	➢	I like this statement: Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect.
	➢	I agree that Christians should treat everyone with respect, recognizing the dignity of being made in the image of God no matter who they are. Also recognizing that no matter where they are in their walk of faith, they always have the possibility of being redeemed. I actually also like this statement:
	➢	But Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him, calls people names, and doesn’t respect the God-given dignity of others" I like it because it doesn't draw a strong contrast between Trump and Christianity and in so doing come off as heavy handed. It focuses on issues that are relevant issues to bring up as objections. But it doesn't go further. It does talk about God-given dignity, but it's not drawing a contrast between moral Christians and an immoral Trump. (Female)

	➢	This is very similar to the previous question that asked about the golden rule. I agree fully with this statement. (Male)

	➢	I like the most that this statement is carrying the weight of the responsibility of the Christian. (Female)

	➢	As a Christian, I believe that part of what makes us valuable as individuals is the fact that we are made in the image of God. I like the phrase "God-given dignity" because it reminds me of this tenant of the faith. Trump has shown through a myriad of actions that he has little respect for those who oppose him, and I think this is antithetical to the Christian faith. (Male)

	➢	This is true, Trump is an immature child. Trump is very insulting and I would not want to have him as my friend. (Male)

	➢	This is by far the best statement I have read in this selection, it seems to be doctrinally true and the application seems valid. (Male)

	➢	My favorite thing about this statement is the way it emphasizes respect. Giving others respect is a basic human responsibility. Everyone should give respect. (Female)

	➢	I agree that Trump acts this way. It seems so childish the way he reacts to people who hold different beliefs than him. Even the youngest of Christians would feel wrong treating people this way. (Female)

	➢	I like everything in here. Trump definitely commits all of these wrongs. It's completely true. (Female)

	➢	Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect A true Christian statement. (Male)

Things You Like Least

	➢	He is trying to take away more than dignity he is trying to create a rift within the country and we need to fight back to stop this hatred from spreading. (Male)

	➢	Unfortunately, this statement is fairly true.  It is hard to disagree with it. (Male)

	➢	I dislike that Trump insults individuals of different races, ethnicities, gender, and needs. (Male)

	➢	I do not dislike any part of this statement, this statement is 100% true. (Female)

	➢	The fact that you have said that he does not respect the "God-given" dignity of others really worries me. Saying that something is God-given means that you automatically deserved it. Well, does Trump not deserve that too? Or does he just deserve to be judged? It is not our place to just. (Female)

	➢	There is nothing I dislike about this statement. (Male)

	➢	There was nothing that I disliked about this statement. I found it very succinct and believable. (Male)

	➢	There's nothing in this statement that offends me or that I strongly dislike. I of course don't like the fact that Trump calls people names, but I don't have any problem with this statement. (Female)

	➢	I don't really disagree with anything here. (Male)

	➢	I don't like that this statement makes me wonder if Christians are treating Trump with decency and respect. (Female)

	➢	Completely agree with this statement. There isn't any part I liked the least. (Male)

	➢	God given dignity? The Bible describes humans as worms:
	➢	how much less a mortal, who is but a maggot— a human being, who is only a worm!”
	➢	Job 25:6 NIV http://bible.com/111/job.25.6.NIV (Male)

	➢	This statement was good overall. (Male)

	➢	My least favorite thing about this statement is the discussion that Trump doesn't respect people. It is true and it is so unfortunate. (Female)

	➢	I can't honestly say I don't like anything about this statement v (Female)

	➢	I think the whole statement was factual and I don't dislike anything. (Female)

	➢	But Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him, calls people names. So does Hillary. (Male)

Evangelical Women

Things You Like

	➢	Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him, calls people names, and doesn’t respect the God-given dignity of others"

	➢	I agree with the entire statement. Trump has to curb his tongue.

	➢	"Part of being a Christian..." It gets my attention, for a second.

	➢	One of the things that God gives us is dignity, and yes, Trump does not respect that. He will take anyone's dignity and trample it for the sake of publicity.

	➢	I don't like anything about this hypercritical, self-righteous, smarmy statement.

	➢	Decency and respect are favorable and wise.

	➢	"Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect." I totally agree with this!

	➢	"Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect.

	➢	I agree with statement that we should treat others with decency and respect. I also think that it is an accurate statement in terms of how Mr. Trump treats other people.

	➢	The best part is that a Christian should treat others with respect. I know Trump does not do this. But as I have said in a previous post, I don't believe he is truly a Christian.

	➢	Part of being a Christian is treating our neighbors with decency and respect---I like this most because we are instructed as Christians to love everyone, even though who's are different from us, those who want to kill us, those who we see sinning in their personal choices.  We are not to condemn them but we also cannot condone their sin. Even in their sin, we are to show them love, respect, decency.

	➢	what I like best about this statement is the first sentence. This is one of the ways the Lord commands us to act to others.

	➢	Trump does Fire back insults to those who disagree, so I appreciate him being called out on that.

	➢	Nothing is liked.

	➢	I believe there is a version amount of validity in this statement as far as me trump using personal insults and a me calling which again is disturbing and not very Christian like

	➢	Yes, and the speaker is disrespecting me and calling trump names by being so simple and closed minded.

	➢	I totally agree with the whole statement.  You should treat you neighbors with decency and respect.  Trump does all of the things stated above.

Things You Like Least

	➢	It’s all good

	➢	What I like least is that it is so true. I agree with this statement.

	➢	It begins with something about being a Christian, but then there go the accusations regarding Trump and his antics...here's the problem. I have never really heard Trump get on a platform and proclaim himself as a true believing born again or devout Christian, I have only been aware that his religious affiliation was Christian and he's from or has grown up in a culturally Christian environment. So why would we expect anything Christian out of him?

	➢	We assume that name calling ends when we are too old for the playground, but not with someone like Donald Trump. He is a disgrace to Christians and adults everywhere.

	➢	Again, who is saying this?  I can't analyze these statements without knowing from whence they came.  I feel unable to fully understand the AGENDA behind the statement, and I am completely certain there is one.  Again, this person is not a reader of hearts and cannot know if Mr. Trump respects the dignity of others or not.

	➢	Again, I do not like the bullying from Trump.

	➢	I can't say there is anything I like least, the statement is spot on for me.

	➢	But Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him, calls people names, and doesn’t respect the God-given dignity of others" In my opinion he is not showing any Christian behavior at all.

	➢	I don't know that there is anything I like the least. I fully agree with the statement.

	➢	This is another statement that I don't like overall. It is wrong to be disrespectful to others, however if you look around it seems most people no longer respect others. Trump is no different than the majority of people in our country. It doesn't make it right.

	➢	Mr. Trump insults those who disagree with him, calls people names, and doesn’t respect the God-given dignity of others --- I like this least because it is concerning and points to Trump's character.

	➢	What I like least is that It is, unfortunately, is that it is a pretty accurate description of the behavior of this presidential candidate.

	➢	I don't like the part about God-given dignity. In a world where others don't have the freedoms we take for granted in America, this seems inappropriate.

	➢	Only God knows what is in our hearts, Donald Trump in order to survive has to be a tough guy on the outside. I don't believe for a moment that he is really like what he acts like.

	➢	Least liked in think the criticism was valid to an extent but a bit too harsh

	➢	I dislike that this is a one-sided ignorant person who is ignoring Clinton’s affiliation and donation acceptance from leaders of countries where women are gang raped, mutilated, and gays and Christians are slaughtered mercilessly.

	➢	nothing I agree with the whole statement.

"As a candidate for President, Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric at campaign rallies which has led to violence. He’s said that his supporters should quote knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato."

Catholic Women

Things You Like

	➢	I’m not sure I like anything about this statement at alll

	➢	"As a candidate for President, Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric at campaign rallies which has led to violence. He’s said that his supporters should quote knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato." I think putting a direct quote he has said is very meaningful and shows the mentality of someone like him.

	➢	I don't really find offense to knocking the crap out of someone throwing a tomato because we as a society have become very sarcastic in nature and if someone really did knock someone out I don't see a strong influence from Trump. The Pope said he would knock someone out too whoever talked about his mother wrongfully. So I like how Trump is not afraid to add in today's sarcasm to his political campaign.

	➢	He’s said that his supporters should quote knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato. When someone throws the first so called tomato or the first ding at you, then it is necessary to respond back in some way with either silence, words, or proving them wrong.

	➢	There is not one bit of the context that I like about this statement.  The only good part is the period at the end of the sentence.

	➢	"As a candidate for President, Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric at campaign rallies which has led to violence." How can a man who does this lead a country and promote peace?

	➢	I like that it points out Trump's flaws.

	➢	There is nothing to like in that statement, promoting violence and becoming president don't quite go together.

	➢	He uses hateful rhetoric, and appears to enjoy the attention even if negative to violent.

	➢	I am embarrassed by such behavior. I think that inciting a mob is wrong.  Such behavior and rhetoric is wrong.  If these allegations are true, then why isn't there a governing body that establishes rules for campaign behavior (like there are rules for athlete behavior at sporting events)?  If candidates do not follow appropriate and professional rules, then they should be fined or suffer consequences.

	➢	The statement gives an example of what a bad leader Trump would be. He flies of the handle pretty easy, which is not the type of person I want running my country

	➢	I like the idea that Donald Trump is shown here to use violence and hate rhetoric. Not that I condone this behavior, but the fact that it is stated that his campaign has supported these actions.

	➢	Highlighted Text: “As a candidate for President, Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric at campaign rallies which has led to violence

	➢	I don't like anything about this at all.

	➢	He knows a lot of his supporters love that type of behavior.  He is pitting one against the other, hoping his supporters will triumph.

	➢	Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric This statement says it all about what Mr. Trump is really like. Mr. Trump cannot say anything about the issues this country faces he just says awful things about one person or another not what he is going to do for this country.

	➢	Nothing. I liked absolutely nothing about this statement.

Things You Like Least

	➢	This whole statement is a disgrace Wow how can someone who is going to be a leader of our country talk and act this way. How are other countries going to respect us?

	➢	There is nothing I dislike.

	➢	I really don't see anything as violent or hateful in his speech. This goes back to the fact that everyone will be offended by something and apparently whoever wrote these remarks doesn't recall any sarcastic things they've said before. I think it's brave and bold of Trump to talk like this on his campaign and whoever does act out on this has some mental issues themselves not to blame Trump. It's like the woman who sued McDonald’s because her coffee was too hot, ridiculous.

	➢	As a candidate for President, Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric at campaign rallies which has led to violence. His words are just words. People have a choice for themselves to take him literal or look at what he is really trying to say. He means when someone throws a tomato at you, or nasty words at you, then you should knock those words back and stand your ground.

	➢	Violent and hateful remarks that instigate riots and violence have no place in a civil society.  Why would any sane person think it was okay to suggest violence as a means of resolution is beyond me!  Now it's not okay to throw food either but violence is not the way to solve it either.

	➢	"knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato." How is this man a candidate for the Presidency?  I don't understand how he can say stuff like this and still have followers.
	➢	7th Jul 2016, 8:48pm

	➢	I dislike that his supporters get violent.

	➢	Telling his supporters to be violent is wrong. Who does he think he is, the leader of a gang!

	➢	Although I do not disagree, perhaps a reference for examples....

	➢	Instead of just complaining about the conditions, I think that suggesting solutions, changes and modification need to be suggested. Was this quote taken out of context Was there more to the story that meets the eye?  How could Trump get away with all of this without being reprimanded by the Republican National Party?  Why was he not rebuked by them?  Politics seems to be very dishonorable. [Hello, you ask some good questions. Why do you think Trump as not been reprimanded or rebuked by the Republican Party?] I think that they either afraid of him, know they can't control him or secretly support his methods. I lump all of them together (i.e. the Republican party) as a whole but do realize that they really are fractured into several groups working against or with each other. I do not think they as a party (nor the Democrats either) are solidified as a unified group.  Because of this segmentation, they can't seem to control Trump and are surprised to his rise and success among voters.  

	➢	I think that Trump is not a good person; I think that he is just doing this for attention.

	➢	I don't think this is appropriate for a Presidential Candidate to tell people. Highlighted text: supporters should quote knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato."

	➢	I dislike that this is how Trump behaves.

	➢	I don't understand how he can get away with promoting violence.  He says throw a tomato, which actually means throw anything you want.

	➢	He’s said that his supporters should quote knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato." This sounds like what a 10-year-old would say on a school playground not a man running for President.

	➢	Violence is not the answer. There should be no reason violence is even needed at campaign rallies. It is one thing to have to protect yourself from being attacked and another if violence is unnecessary like at these rallies.

Millennial Evangelicals

Things You Like

	➢	Showing how much hate he is spreading not just by using words. (Male)

	➢	Violent and hateful rhetoric is a mischaracterization of his speech by those who are not hearing what they want to hear.  While there have been instances of violence at Trump rallies, I think it is brought on more but antagonizing actions by anti-Trump protesters than pro-Trump supporters. (Male)

	➢	I like that this individual points out that Trump has used rhetoric when campaigning throughout the country which results in violence. (Male)

	➢	"As a candidate for President, Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric at campaign rallies which has led to violence." In his rallies, people get in fights, Trump kicks people out and insults them. He is a bully. (Female)

	➢	I like that he is saying to stand up for yourself. (Female)

	➢	I like that this statement calls out the fact that there has been violence at his rallies and that Trump's rhetoric is called into question in relation to it. (Male)

	➢	"... Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric at campaign rallies which has led to violence. He’s said that his supporters should quote knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato." I like this statement insofar as it shows a passion for Trump's cause, by those who believe in it most profoundly. Though we may disagree with them, they are still members of our families and communities and so their worries and fears are quite valid and understandable in light of current events. (Male)

	➢	I like this statement: As a candidate for President, Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric at campaign rallies which has led to violence.
	➢	It focuses on relevant issues, don't overly moralize. I'm not sure that I like the word "hateful"--I think that is usually overused and strong, but perhaps in this case it's actually warranted for once. (Female)

	➢	I do agree that Trump takes things too far. This goes back to my opinion that he is not a polished professional acting candidate. I think he speaks before he thinks and or knows what will get the crowed going. If he is really doing it on purpose, he is acting like an old Roman empower. He understands the mob mentality and knows how to feed it. (Male)

	➢	I like that this statement uses a quote from Trump. It’s important to not have the wool over our eyes and to be aware of what people are saying. (Female)

	➢	I agree that Donald Trump's language has incited violence at his rallies with "violent and hateful rhetoric". I also think that this is obviously in conflict with the teachings of Christ and serves as further evidence for Trump's lack of connection to the Christian faith. (Male)

	➢	I am not familiar with that quote but I can imagine him saying it. I agree, trumpet does stir up a lot of Discord which this country does not need more of. (Male)

	➢	This really isn't a directly faith related statement; however, the implied problems with encouraging violence is clear, and overall I agree with this statement and perspective. (Male)

	➢	I don't necessarily like anything about this statement but I agree that Trump is hateful and ignites unfounded fear in others. (Female)

	➢	I like that this statement points out how dangerous a Trump presidency will be. People rally behind him and do whatever King Trump tells them to do. (Female)

	➢	Violence is never the answer. (Female)

	➢	He’s said that his supporters should quote knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato. I think this quote was just calling for party strength. (Male)

Things You Like Least

	➢	People need to do more than throw tomatoes we need a revolution (Male)

	➢	Violent and hateful is not right. (Male)

	➢	I dislike that a Presidential candidate would use such rhetoric and make a statement about knocking the crap out of someone. (Male)

	➢	I agree completely with the statement above. (Female)

	➢	I do not think that knocking someone out over tomatoes is the proper response to anything at all. It is a version of free speech. I just think that one should control themselves. So, yes it was wrong to suggest. (Female)

	➢	I don't like that the statement states that it is a fact that his rhetoric has led to violence. I'm sure violence has occurred at the rallies of other presidential candidates as well. (Male)

	➢	What I dislike about this statement is that it paints all Trump supporters with a brush of brutish violence and aggression. Just because someone does not care for another individual, or their beliefs, I do not necessarily feel that violence would be their first answer. At the end of this political travesty, these will still be everyday human beings, our neighbors and friends. (Male)

	➢	I strongly dislike this statement if true, not because this person is mentioning it, but because of what Trump is saying here. He’s said that his supporters should quote knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato. (Female)

	➢	I don't really dislike anything about it. Although I do not believe that Trump is responsible for all of the violence. (Male)

	➢	I don't like that Trump incites violence at his rallies. That makes me feel stressed and anxious. (Female)

	➢	There's not really any evidence, per se, that this statement came from a faith leader. It doesn't invoke any scripture or teachings from the Bible. I agree with the statement though. (Male)

	➢	None. (Male)

	➢	Once again it really beats around the bush and seems to imply "good deeds theology" and I know to most people that isn't always a big deal, but it really isn't good theology or unbiasedness. (Male)

	➢	I am appalled by his speech and am truly fearful for his possible leadership. (Female)

	➢	This statement isn't really showing an opinion. The author is just pointing out facts. (Female)

	➢	The rioters who show up at his event are started the violence. While Trump shouldn't respond with violence, I completely understand why he'd make this statement. When someone throws a tomato at person, that is an act of violence and of course it would anger the person that it was targeted at. (Female)

	➢	Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric. This statement is once again over exaggerated. (Male)

Evangelical Women

Things You Like

	➢	As a candidate for President, Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric at campaign rallies which has led to violence. And knock the crap outta someone

	➢	All true. He has encouraged violence. Sometimes he acts more like a King or dictator ordering his minions.

	➢	He's said his supporters should " knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato" 

	➢	I personally think this statement is funny and do not take it seriously. It's just rhetoric.

	➢	Hateful rhetoric is a good way of putting it. Trump loves to hear himself speak and will say just about anything, even if it is full of hate and incites anger.

	➢	I don't like anything.

	➢	From what I've seen this statement is true.  I question any potential leader that would say," his supporters should quote knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato."

	➢	I don’t like anything about this statement. It is rude and unprofessional.

	➢	Nothing at all. Just shows how our country would be in trouble if he were elected

	➢	I don't know that I like anything about this statement, other than the fact that it serves to reinforce my opinion of Trump as a bully.

	➢	There is nothing I like about this statement.

	➢	I do not like anything about this statement.

	➢	I don't like anything about this statement.

	➢	There's not much to like about this statement! If I were hard pressed to find something, I’d have to answer that I like that he instructs his supporters to defend themselves.

	➢	Donald Trump said if someone hits you first, hit them back and I agree. That's what I taught my kids.

	➢	I don't think there's much to like about this description. what stands out is the violence that is surrounding their camp atom rallies sometime s ... I also heard that sound bite and was disappointed I think if he adopted a more faith based tone it would be more appealing

	➢	Yes, and Hillary often sucks up donations from leaders of countries who are violent and hateful toward women, girls, gays and Christians.

	➢	Nothing, I don't agree with this in anyway.


Things You Like Least

	➢	It’s all good

	➢	I dislike this whole statement but it is true. I sometimes fear what he is going to say next.

	➢	"As a candidate for President, Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric at campaign rallies which has led to violence. I want to see proof, facts, documentation that this is true and not just made up or staged violence made to look like trump supporters are violent. Anyone who runs for president uses distasteful means to get their points out at some time or other. If

	➢	Violence for violence sake does not do us any good. It only makes the chasm wider and pulls America apart at the seams. Having someone who is looking for a place of power encourage knocking the crap out of someone else is horrible.

	➢	I would like to be shown exact quotes or video with the hateful, violent rhetoric.  Let me judge it for myself.   I don't like to be told what to think.  I like to be thought of as intelligent and able to make up my mind myself.

	➢	That fact that it is true is what I like least.  I feel like our leaders should seek to bring out the best in us as a society.  Encouraging violence is a huge step backwards for us.

	➢	A president cannot portray anger and violence that is Tone problem we already have!

	➢	. He’s said that his supporters should quote knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato." Just shows Hus ignorance

	➢	I don't like that Trump advocates violence when people disagree with each other. Further, I feel that it is important to turn the other cheek and to not provoke or extend violent behavior in others.

	➢	This is another statement I'm not sure if it is totally true. If it is true, it reflects his personality and again confirms he is not a Christian. It is not a statement I would want my son or any teenager to hear and believe.

	➢	As a candidate for President, Donald Trump often uses violent and hateful rhetoric at campaign rallies which has led to violence. He’s said that his supporters should quote knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato. --- I like absolutely nothing about this statement because it points to the liberal agenda of the media and is taken out of context.

	➢	What I like least about it is that it's true.

	➢	I don't like the part that generalizes Trump's statements, saying he "often" does something is less effective than giving a good example, one that isn't silly and involving tomatoes.

	➢	All untrue and blown up by the media.

	➢	The entire statement is just offensive and not fitting for a presidential candidate of faith

	➢	Again, this is from an ignorant person for whom I will pray. Please forgive them, Lord, for they do not know the depths of their own ignorance.

	➢	This is so wrong in so many ways.  What stood out for me was that he’s said that his supporters should quote "knock the crap out of someone who throws a tomato."

If you feel as though something was left out that is important, please feel free to use this space to let us know your thoughts.   

Catholic Women

	➢	I am a catholic but don’t beleive in a lot of their statements because of their past actions. We are all at fault sometime or another but I do also think that mr trump needs to tone down his actions. He is seriously making this election a joke. But there are some things I do like about him

	➢	Nope, I think you covered it. I can’t think of anything else.

	➢	I think Trump is turning this campaign into what America needs which is a wakeup call among politicians and I love the fact he's throwing so many money endorsers under the bus for Hillary because it's true that money talks and I'm just thankful he's working with his own.

	➢	I do not feel anything was left out. thank you.

	➢	This was focused solely on Trump and I believe the other presumptive candidates should be addressed as well.

	➢	Trump is terrible and all of these statements have made very valid points showing how awful and unchristian he is.

	➢	Trump is a horrible person.

	➢	I don't feel that anything was left out.

	➢	Not applicable.

	➢	I would have liked to have seen Trump's and the RNC's rebuttal/responses documented.  There is always 2 sides to every story.

	➢	This statement was taken out of context, here is what Donald Trump actually said: So if you see someone getting ready to throw a tomato, knock the crap out of ‘em. Would you? Seriously. Ok? Just knock the hell—I promise you, I will pay for the legal fees. I promise. I promise.

	➢	I don't think Trump acts like a Christian in how he acts and speaks.

	➢	I honestly feel that neither candidate is capable of running our country.  I will really have a hard time going to the voting booth on election day.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	Trump has spread hate and fights he still employs those who have been shown to cause physical harm to others. (Male)

	➢	I would like to have had an opportunity to discuss positive things people said about Trump.  If this comes in a following activity, I apologize in advance. (Male)

	➢	Nothing in particular comes to mind. However, perhaps the individual who made the quote could be put under the statement. (Male)

	➢	I am very anti-Trump, and I have agreed with every statement that has been given so far.

	➢	I do not believe that there was anything left out.

	➢	I don't think there is anything I want to add here. (Male)

	➢	I do not feel that anything important was omitted from this quote. I found everything easily understood and coherent, if not a tad generalizing. (Male)

	➢	This statement didn't overly moralize or draw God or Christianity into it. But I think that's good. It doesn't come off as self-righteous. It's focusing on issues and facts (if assuming the statement about Trump is true).

	➢	This is very thorough; I don't think anything important has been left out.

	➢	I realize that Ted Cruz was the original top pick for the Christian Right, but I don't understand why so much of this subculture has thrown their support behind Trump when most of what he does and says is in obvious conflict with their core agenda. I can only reason that they truly hate Hillary Clinton so much that it makes Trump look like an attractive alternative. (Male)

	➢	I do not feel anything is left out of what they are saying. I understand the person’s views but, feel they are inaccurate. (Male)

Evangelical Women

	➢	No I believe I said everything in an earlier post.

	➢	I think he is so used to getting his own way that he doesn't see anything wrong with his statements.

	➢	I feel all the statements I've been asked to evaluate have been well, misguided and misdirected. The statements seem aimed at getting me to judge Donald Trump the candidate for President according to Christian values and beliefs when I don't really think he has professed to be a committed Christian. Now if it were Billy Graham or Robert Schuller or Joel Osteen, it would be a different story. If they exhibited the same methods and said the same things we hear from Trump on the campaign, then sure, throw the book at him. Also if you are going to use Christian phrases or references, know the original source and understand it clearly as well as the other scriptures that are related to it whether they be in old or New Testament and quote them chapter and verse. As for Judging Donald Trump, I would judge him as an international businessman and investor because THAT is where he DOES claim skill and experience.

	➢	Hearing the words come out of Trump's mouth is scary at times. He is becoming more like a politician in that he says what his supporters want to hear. But most of the time, he doesn't really say much of anything. There is no substance to his speech and not much new is said.

	➢	We need to know who says these things.  I guess I could Google this statement, so I will.  OK.  I cannot find who said it.  Who said it?  And what is their agenda?

	➢	Comments like this don't instill a great sense of faith in him as a candidate.  If he's willing to pin us against one another for his own personal agenda, creating unrest in an already volatile situation.  I'm afraid to see what he could do with even more power.

	➢	Trump does have good qualities. The democrats only show the bad side. Let’s be fair!

	➢	I think you've covered all the stupid ways Mr. Trump acts in public and how very little he shows any Christian ways

	➢	I think everything was addressed.

	➢	I don't really have anything else to add here. It would be nice to know who said these statements as it may have added to whether I felt they were reliable sources. I don't believe everything I hear, even if it is coming from a religious leader. Unfortunately, some of them are just as corrupt as some of the politicians.

	➢	Were we supposed to know who said the statements?

	➢	I don't have anything else to add.

	➢	I do not have anything to add at this time.

	➢	Donald Trump as said by many is nothing like what he acts.

	➢	I don’t think I have anything to add this was petty comprehensive

	➢	Again, where's the part about how Clinton lies, causes Americans to be murdered, takes bribes and donations from leaders of countries where women are gang raped, girls' genitals are mutilated, gays are set on fire, and Christians are buried alive in mass graves? that’s just a little important.

	➢	I don't see how his supporters could agree with being violent, especially Christians.


Activity 7: Homework Report
Last time we were together we asked you to attend religious services if you could. Describe what happened if you were able to attend services. Did the priest say anything that you felt was relevant to think about in this upcoming presidential election?  Whether or not you attended services, what would you like to hear from priests about how they are considering their faith in the upcoming presidential election?  Has your priest talked about the Presidential race in the past? Have they mentioned anything about the tone of the Presidential campaign? If so what have they talked about? Has it made an impact on how you think about the campaign?   

Catholic Women

	➢	The priest talked about the good Samaritan in his homily this weekend and posed the question, "Who is our neighbor?" Several people passed by the man in need, but not the good Samaritan, he showed mercy and helped and that's what we should do as well. No, our priest does not talk about the Presidential race or politics.

	➢	I don't normally attend religious services, but I would imagine that the sermons this weekend included feelings and thoughts about the violence in Dallas. Whites against Blacks seems to be an ongoing battle and I'm sure that priests, pastors, etc. want to see an end come to that. Racial tensions are what I think should be the focus of at least some of their sermons.

	➢	When I have attended church I have not heard a sermon that mentions the presidential race or politics of any sort. The focus has usually been on our community.

	➢	I did attend a religious service on Sunday.  I went to church with my family while on vacation.  During special intentions, a prayer was said for our nations president and presidential candidates.  The specific intention was for our leader to help bring peace and lead our great nation in a harmonious way that is Christ-like. I did not feel the priest said anything relevant to make me think about the upcoming election. I do not wish to hear our priest give his 2 cents beyond the special intention.  My confidence in the church has wavered due to all the sexual abuse allegations, especially, in the area I live in.  (Philadelphia). I attended a service while on vacation so I'm not sure if the priest usually speaks to the tone of the upcoming election. The priest spoke to the current violence going on between police and civilians.  And, asked that we pray for peace and not show so much hatred. When attending services at my "home" church, the priest usually speaks about abortion and pro-life. He does not engage in presidential candidate chatter.

	➢	He has not mentioned the elections at all. But if he did I would hope that he would tell people to vote for someone who will make the country better not only financially but morally as well.


	➢	I was unable to attend religious services on Sunday, as I was unexpectedly called into work. In the past 3 Sunday's the priest has not said anything regarding the Presidential race. As far as the tone of the Presidential campaign, there hasn't been any mention of that either. What has made me think about the Presidential Campaign is the shootings of the Police Officers in Dallas. I don't believe the Presidential candidates have spoken about the great divide in America between the police and blacks, who keep being shot by the police. It seems that the "real" problems or issues are being ignored by the Presidential candidates. This Presidential campaign has brought up issues that aren't really issues, I feel in an attempt to take our minds off the real issues. Real issues, such as why are so many Police shooting unarmed blacks? Why are employers allowed to not pay overtime or benefits to employees by making them "contract employees" Why does Trump state he wants to bring back jobs to America, when his own daughter's clothing line is made overseas.

	➢	I went to Church on Sunday. I listened carefully to what he said, but a lot of it had to do with Dallas, Minnesota and Louisiana. What I could relate to the election was that we must love each other as family. We are no different from another simply because of the color of our skin. We bleed and feel the same way. These things made me think about how Hilary seems to have empathy for everyone and not just those in her economic status. My Priest does not usually mention politics or any particular candidate. He focuses more on family, love and forgiveness.

	➢	I was out of town and unable to attend mass

	➢	I did attend my local Catholic church this Sunday hoping the priest would mention something in his homily and he did! I was shocked because I missed the last week and thought maybe something was mentioned then but I guess this election year really everyone is talking about it. He started with his homily talking about as Christians we are called to love our enemies and in the election what everyone is doing is condemning the character of each other more then their actions. I felt he was actually walking a thin line because at times in his homily it could be misconstrued that he was sounding like a Hillary sympathizer. He talked about how she was cleared of all charges brought against her and that people were angry at the judgement assuming the judgment was wrong. Well, in a lot of people's reality they do feel the judgement was wrong and corrupt. But the priest wanted to make a point that the judgement was accurate and people were still outraged attacking her character. For me personally I do think the judgement was corrupt a certain extent due to the fact she has a lot of strings she can pull her way in Washington. It didn't really change my opinion on the election. It did have an impact on me when he kept saying how as Christians we are supposed to love our enemy even if that means ISIS and to prayer not only for the souls of the persecuted but also the persecutor.

	➢	I did attend mass this weekend, however the priest was more focused on the awful events that occurred over the past week and did not mention anything about the election/candidates. To my recollection he has never really spoken about politics in general. I would like to hear the priest urge parishioners to consider their options and weigh them through Catholic lenses. Reiterate what the church teaches (especially about marriage and abortion) and use that info to make a moral choice.

	➢	The gospel reading on Sunday was Luke 10:25-37, the parable of the Good Samaritan.  This parable was totally on target with issue of immigration.  Even the priest, who is assumed to be a Christian, avoided the man in need.  The Samaritan not only helped the man immediately but also came back to check on him.  This act of mercy shown by the Good Samaritan is one that should be exhibited to all people. Our priests have not talked about any aspect of the candidates thus far.  However, in previous elections they have discussed the issues and expressed the Church’s stand on those issues.  There has never been a candidate openly supported.  Local candidates have been invited to speak in group gatherings outside or regular church services but still not openly supported by the priests.

	➢	I was not able to go to services this Sunday which I was upset about. Our Priest is not very political at all and really he speaks of nothing about the campaign. Since I live outside of Orlando, FL our Priest spends a lot of time talking about the mass killing at the Pace night club and all the hate in the world. I would like to hear him talk about how the candidates need to talk more about family values and more tolerance needs to be done. I know our Priest does talk from time to time about the abortion issue and gay marriage which I have a hard time coming to grips with as I know it may be wrong but people should be able to make their own choices.

	➢	My priests do not talk directly about the presidential race or the candidates.  They talk about the issues and what our faith says about those issues.  They encourage us to make faith based decisions but do not name candidates or parties.  It is about voting for our beliefs more than for a person.  As such nothing about the tone has been mentioned.  I would not want my priest talking about the candidates or the election.  They are there for guidance in faith, not to take political stances.

	➢	I did attend services and the priest spoke about current race relations and recent tragedies that are occurring in our society.  He related the 'God Samaritan' passage to current time and the reference to treating our neighbors as we would want ourselves to be treated. Specifically, the priest did not mention the presidential candidates; nevertheless, the homily could be applied to the actions of the candidates. The focus was on accepting all people without segregating them by distinction. Although I feel that political ramifications of treating everyone in a neighborly fashion when it comes to immigration and sexual tolerance/orientation is left up to interpretation that really neither political party really embodies the true spirit of the gospels. Politics is a dirty business that serves greed with lobbyists and political power when considering the true human needs of refugees/immigrants that are intermixed with radical based jihadist groups that advocate terrorism at all costs. Religion helps to inspire us to think about how to treat others yet evil still exists.  We continuously ask why do tragic things occur yet our politicians can't come to agreement on banning assault weapons. Nevertheless, I was left with an uplifted feeling that there is always hope if we accept others and treat others fairly. It's just that there are unsurmountable odds that not everyone is listening to this message.
Our parish Monsignor has spoken about the tone of the political campaign at prior masses.
He has mentioned that the tone of it as being very negative.  He supports the Pope when it comes to building connections while not isolating specific groups of people.  I can relate to these positive messages of wanting compassion, humility and caring concern for marginalized groups of people yet at the same time I know that in the end I will make up my own mind based on what I trust to be the right decision.  I do not take every word of the priests, bishops and Pope to be the final factor.  I weigh their advice and comments against logic and my instinctive value system.  I do not always trust the Catholic Church's recommendations in terms of politics and morality. I think that a wise person is one who assesses every angle and determines a sound solid decision based on the facts.

	➢	After an extensive search reading many sermons, I was unable to locate clear references related to the campaign. I did revisit the sermon following the Orlando shootings. The tone of the message was that it a breach of conflict not to welcome all to our shores in a Christian loving manner. In deferring to the pis it appears as a nudge for parishioners to think about immigration.

	➢	In life sometimes we forget to be open minded and truly hear what others are trying to say. We have to remember to look for a leader with similar beliefs. Is he/she concerned with protecting and having the best interests of our people first? Or is he/she doing it in search of power? Does this candidate have the ability to be merciful and loving? Do they show compassion? Or do they boast and put down others? It has made a good impact on me. God loves in more ways than we can count. God is kind and gentle yet fierce and just. If we try to just live a life of compassion and understanding, we can create stronger bonds. To be there for someone in time of need instead of turning those away can change people’s lives. In times when you have good fortune you pay it forward without seeking or expecting anything in return. You have to other wise why even help at all?

	➢	I normally do not attend religious services regularly.  I did on Sunday just for this purpose.  Unfortunately, the priest never mentioned the presidential race.  The sermon was about the unrest and killings in this country at the present time.  To be honest I don't any religious leader should preach about who we should vote for.  I am sure they are for Donald Trump because of his position on Pro-life.  They are very closed minded and feel that all their congregation should feel the same.

Millennial Evangelicals 

	➢	While not directly addressed in this week's sermon, the message was about finding and having hope in an uncertain future.  I can certainly see how that message could be translated to the current political environment we find ourselves in.  I am not generally a negative person, but the current state of affairs generally, and the political environment specifically, has caused a ripple in my thinking.  I am grateful for a spiritual advisor who can help me reframe my thinking and provide a historical and biblical context for times such as our happening in the past.  I am hopeful that whatever the outcome, that it will be for our good. [You are grateful when a spiritual advisor who can help you be reflective? Where do you draw the line for a spiritual advisor?] I always look forward to being able to interact with clergy of my church on a weekly basis.  It's easy to become mired in the day-to-day process of living life, and with all the negativity swirling around us, I have a real appreciation for the. 30,000-foot view of our world and the way we can go about living our lives.  As far as spiritual advising goes, outside of those positions within the church is where I draw the line.  It becomes very easy to confuse spiritual guidance with biased opinion, especially with those who may not have credentials or an ambiguous background. (Male)

	➢	My pastor did not talk about the election but did talk about the country needing to come together to support and help those that are less fortunate and not judge individuals based on life circumstances but be filled with love and giving for all individuals. My pastor has not mentioned the election at all but has covered topics that seem to be associated such as personal attacks and trying to separate the country and create a divide. His talking about these aspects has made me realize exactly how much I will not vote for trump and that I will do anything in my power in order to make sure nobody I know will bode for him either by presenting information to them (Male)

	➢	This Sunday the pastor did not talk about anything I felt related to presidential election in a direct or clear way. In the past though I have heard topics discussed behind the pulpit in regards more to specific policies rather than the election or specific politicians. However, I have listened to a handful of panel discussions with Pastor's I respect and admire, who in that setting, are far more willing to call out both candidates by name, and call out their different policies directly. As far as tone is concerned the closest statement I have heard to that came from John Piper who said something along the lines of "We have one candidate in Clinton who wants to act like we don't have a problem, and we have one in Trump who paints with a broad problem, and both are dangerous!" Otherwise I have heard little specifically about the tone in the congregations I am involved with. (Male)

	➢	So, with the service I attended here in town, the pastor actually discussed The Golden Rule and combined that a little bit with the presidential election; he didn't really get too deep or specific. He discussed both Trump and Clinton when speaking. I appreciate honesty from someone I trust, so I would welcome my pastor to discuss how faith plays a part in politics. However, some might not feel the same, so he has to walk this thin line. However, he and I have discussed faith in politics a few times before for a brief moment. My pastor has discussed the Presidential race before, but only briefly. He typically does not get too specific. It is normally more of a generic reference in stating the candidate's name--not what he or she did or is doing. This is more or less how he has approached discussing the Presidential race. He talks about how important it is to have faith in politics. Without the Lord, we are not complete. He has made the statement in the past about how Trump appears non-Christian due to the name calling, but said it is not his call to question someone's faith. It hasn't really impacted my thoughts on the campaign. Of course, I take consideration into what my pastor says, but I form my own thoughts about issues. [Why would you welcome the discussion? Where do you believe the line should be drawn] I would welcome the discussion, because politics is one of those topics that is critically important to talk about superficially. I would draw the line where the pastor would bring his or her views and "push" them on others. (Male)

	➢	My pastor's sermon was focused on the teaching that we are called to be merciful to others as God has been merciful to us. I believe this quality of mercy is something that is important to me in deciding who I chose to vote for. Currently, I don't think many of the candidates have been merciful at all. My pastor has not talked about the Presidential race in the past. There has been no mention of the tone. [How would you feel if your pastor did talk about the race or anything that related to the race?] I would be a bit concerned. I think the pastor's main role is to proclaim the Scriptures. The Scriptures certainly apply to the election but I don't think they need to bring up the specific election issues. (Male)

	➢	I wasn't able to attend, but my grandma visited my office this morning and I asked her what the sermon was about. She said it was about loving thy neighbor. I go to a very traditional church (wish we had something a bit more modern around) and they never really tie in current events with the sermons. However, I think this does apply to the situation involving cops shooting black people and then others retaliating. It doesn't have much to do with the election, but it does focus on loving everyone. My pastor doesn't talk about the election. He tends to keep politics out of his sermon (again, relating back to the fact that current events are hardly ever brought into the sermons.) I wish I had a better answer for you on this, but that's all I've got. [Hello, why do you believe current events are not brought up into the sermons? What is traditional about your church?] Everything is traditional. It's hard to explain. It's very old-school. We still sing the same old hymns our of a hymnal over and over again. We follow the same setup almost every week. Real life situations are never brought into the sermons so that's why current events are not discussed. It literally just focuses on scripture in the Bible...not how it applies to our lives or anything. I went to a Lutheran school until high school and that's really where I learned the most as far as adapting scripture into real life situations. My church just doesn't do that. I don't know their reasoning. (Female)

	➢	It was interesting. This Sunday, the scriptures were about honesty. This actually led to the discussion of the presidential race. We see Trump as being honest because he is out in the open, but Hilary can keep a secret. Being able to keep a secret is not a good thing when it comes to running for president. We, the people, would not know what is going on in our own nation. I think that it made me feel really good knowing that my pastor was behind me on who I favor for the presidential election. The actual tone was not mentioned, but only because we moved topics rather quick before anything got heated. (Female)

	➢	Nothing was said about the presidential campaign specifically, but the message was about not losing faith. It was preached about in a general sense, whether it was about your marriage, financial woes, or the in direction our country is headed. It made me see that not all hope is lost and there is still work that needs to be done. (Female)

	➢	I was unable to attend church this weekend. I was on duty here at the fire station. I honestly prefer when the pastor does not try to directly tell the church who to vote for. I prefer that they teach the bible. If I am a faithful follower, then I should be able to discern the best candidate for me. Our pastor has mentioned the race and his belief that it is an important one. He spoke about how important it was that we should all vote, but has never mentioned either candidates name. His only instruction is to vote for our convictions. (Male)

	➢	Our pastor has yet to discuss the Presidential election, but has done so in the past, saying that both parties need to reach a middle ground of compromise, so as to bring unity to the election process. He also feels that the entire tone is an unfriendly one, not in keeping with the spirit of brotherhood that MLK and other faith leaders have mentioned in similar eras. I happen to agree with him that people need to speak more compassionately and work for a sense of brotherhood. (Male)

	➢	The pastor did not say much that was relevant to the Presidential election this past Sunday. It's pretty rare that the subject of politics comes up during the sermons at my church. I can recall, however, that at some point around the time that it became clear who the candidates would be, the pastor commented on the uncertainty surrounding the election. His point was not to be distraught by circumstances like this, which I would say is an implication that the state of the election is a negative one. This didn't really have much of an impact on how I thought about the election, because I already agreed with him. (Male)

	➢	I went to church Saturday night. (My church holds services on Saturday nights and Sunday mornings). It was a regular service with worship an a sermon. We were going over a passage from 1 Corinthians. The pastor didn't bring up anything about the presidential election. My church avoids taking sides publicly in such discussions. The passage was about love, so I guess that could be applied to the election season though in terms of all questions about candidates not being civil. But I would never draw that political connection automatically while sitting in a church service. I would not like to hear much about how pastors are considering their faith in the presidential election, not unless they speak in general terms and don't indicate party affiliation. Talking about faith in terms of moral issues is perfectly admissible. Indicating party affiliation while doing so, which is what most pastors have a proclivity to do, is inexcusable. It can alienate people who we want to welcome with loving arms.

	➢	My pastor has talked about the presidential race, but not in sermons. Three months ago, our church held a multi-church event hosted by pastors from 5 local churches to talk about politics, faith and political philosophy (Plato), which my organization took part in hosting. All were agreed, although all came from conservative backgrounds, that not indicating party affiliation or candidate affiliation was the only appropriate way to have such a discussion. But there is no discussion of political races on Sunday mornings. My pastor hasn't mentioned anything about the tone of the race since he doesn't really go into that. I don't think anything he had to say about it would change my opinions. He's a close friend of the family, and we're probably on the same page anyway. (Female)

	➢	Unlike most pastors, the one at my church is not interested in acquiring wealth for himself and does not discuss the election during service. I don't care in the least what a pastor has to say about the election because usually it is just to further his own interests. We discuss spiritual truths during service, not random physical things like most churches. My faith has changed my personality gradually over time which has also formed my political orientation. [Hello, could you please clarify what you mean by spiritual truths? Since the study did not ask specifically about personality, how has your changed over time?] We study through the Bible about God's love/sacrifice, prophecy, and commandments. I mentioned personality because it influences my political disposition. Since starting to study the Bible and follow God I have understood what is right and wrong and come to hate what is evil. My feelings towards people are inevitably determined by what they do as it relates to God's will.  Love must be sincere. Hate what is evil; cling to what is good. Romans 12:9 NIV http://bible.com/111/rom.12.9.NIV Just because someone doesn't do what is right every time, they are not necessarily evil. The actions themselves are evil and can gradually corrupt an individual. Thus I do not hate people.  (Male)

	➢	I did attend religious services (Christian Reformed Church) and the pastor didn't say anything that I felt particularly spoke to the upcoming presidential election. It was edifying in my spiritual walk though, and he did affirm and encourage our church despite the "scary" news topics and tragedies that have been occurring. This is a new church for me and I am not familiar with him ever speaking on the Presidential race. In fact, I don't have any memories of a pastor preaching on any election. So, I would have to answer no, they haven't mentioned anything about the tone of the Presidential campaign. [Hello, I am unclear about the following portion of your comment, could you please clarify?  "It was edifying in my spiritual walk though, and he did affirm and encourage our church despite the "scary" news topics and tragedies that have been occurring."  Also, you state you do not have any recollection of pastors preaching on any presidential election. What is your preference if they do or not?] The pastor's topic of preaching and encouraging his congregation was not to ignore the tragedies that have been happening (the shootings in Orlando and Dallas for instance) but instead was to proclaim that though evil happens the world still belongs to God.   My preference is that a pastor does not preach on the presidential election. No one in authority should persuade voters or be in a position to potentially persuade so as not to open the door to corruption. (Female)

	➢	Our pastor has talked in some capacity but the election. Mostly just focusing on principles about how to be a good citizen in the country and that voting is important. They have not mentioned much about specific candidates. They have specifically said that the tone of the election is hostile. I agree. (Female)

	➢	I was unable to attend a service this weekend, due to work, but I have had a service that was centered around the election and its tone. My pastor was deeply concerned with the state the countries well-being if it had come down to Trump or Hillary, which we now know it has been decided. Just like what I believe the rest of the congregation felt, no one wanted those candidates. The pastor made note of the different races and different financial standings that have come together for God and worship in our church, and that there should be any walls or boundaries for all human kind. He then asked us if we elected one of these candidates to think about how different the United States will be. Will other religions be persecuted, will races be discouraged and beaten down, and will the financially unable be turned away at a time of need? This did shape the way I view the candidates to a certain degree, it made me think about their character and if they can morally and physically be beneficial to this country. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	Nothing about politics. With all the problems about race relations lately the sermons have been about love and forgiveness. I live in a state that is having protesting nightly. That is more prevalent to our community right now instead of the election. I would like our Pastor to mention at least that as Christians we need to vote for the most moral person. [i Kelly, why would do you want your Pastor to mention that as Christians they need to vote?] I feel it's important for all people to vote. Christians should vote by their beliefs. We should all want a moral and good leader. Christians need to vote in a Christian who believes what they believe.  

	➢	I was not able to attend due to work.  I would like for my pastor to lead us in making a sound decision in who we chose based off of our belief.  But not make me pick who they want.  Just bring things to light that are important to me.

	➢	We were told last week that we would have a time of prayer at each service over what has been going on in the country racially. As soon as our pastor got on stage, he said that political parties won't solve our problems. Only prayer will help. He invited police officers on stage and he and an African American man prayed over them and our country. Our pastor prayed for the things that divide us to unite us. He prayed that we would be Jesus with skin on and show kindness. That goes for politics as well. We need to come together as one nation. In the past, I can't remember our main pastor or any of the other staff who have spoken to bring up the election. There are a few local politicians who go to our church, and our pastor has talked about them and had them stand up before. (The mayor and a man who is now a state representative are examples.) [Hi Sarah, do you remember in what context these politicians were talked about? How do you see this kind of interaction? Appropriate or not?] The mayor is very involved in the community events we do, so he is well known by our staff. The state representative was in our pastor's group when he was a youth pastor. They have known each other for over 20 years. Our pastor has never told us to go vote for them but he acknowledges that they go to our church, so I think it is ok.

	➢	Our pastor has not said a lot specifically about the presidential race, but he has said a lot about the direction our country is headed in the way of politics. Yesterday in the sermon he did briefly recap the current events of the week, beginning with the 4th of July and the reason we celebrate was because of religion. The first settlers came to America because of religion and they felt religion in Europe was going the wrong direction. He went on to talk about Trump suing a hat company for making hats not fully made in the US, and then talked about the news of Clinton was careless with her email but had not done anything worth criminal charges. From there he moved on into his topic of the sermon.
	➢	I think generally speaking pastors are careful not to say a lot politically because they feel they are not allowed to tell their congregation how to vote.

	➢	I did manage to go to church and the sermon was on how to remain faithful to God. Part of remaining faithful to God is to rely on his kingdom to fix all the problems that we're facing. I don't believe that any of the problems we face can actually be fixed by a human ruler. I certainly don't believe that God is involved in the election. I don't think he favors one over the other. I believe that Jesus made it clear that his kingdom was no part of this world. In any case the sermon had nothing to do with the election and I was not influenced when where the other on how to vote. If I could hear anything from pastors about the political process, I guess I would like to hear they're genuine personal opinion. I want to know how they feel as human beings and not paid political shills because I do feel that there is some agenda behind their words at this point. I am sure that they did not appear on this commercial free of charge, now did they? I don't even know who any of those people are so I have no reason to believe them. But anyway I would encourage everyone to speak frankly and express their opinions honestly and that's what I'm interested in listening to no matter who is speaking. And that is what is so crazy and ironic here can't you see? That's what I like about Trump.  he says what he thinks. He doesn't worry about what other people are going to think or the political costs. He's not calculated and scripted. Anyway I have spoken frankly myself throughout this study and I believe that you get the idea of where I'm coming from. Do you have any questions I'll be more than happy to explain my position further?

	➢	My pastor hasn't outright said anything about the election.  My church believes in teaching about Jesus, and bringing the "unchurched" to church.  We are generally trusted to make our own decisions about worldly things such as elections, but from a more biblical viewpoint. I did notice that one thing he said, made me take a second look at if I thought the candidates were Christian or not.  He said, "What you believe determines how you behave which determines what you become."  The behavior of the candidates does not necessarily reflect what they say they are (Christian), which leads you to wonder what they will become down the road.

	➢	Our pastor did not mention anything particularly political in nature at all with regards to American culture. This is likely due in part to his awareness of the separation of church and state as well as the fact that his family is Slovak and he is generally asking for prayers for them and others who are affected by what Russia is doing. I wish that our pastor WOULD talk about the race as I am really in a quandary as to who to vote for and it would help to have a theological take on both candidates separately. As for other things, he DID reference the recent killing of police officers in Dallas Texas and that made me think that more security for political events and rallies might be a good idea.
	➢	And that we need a president who understands need for more bulletproof vests and helmets for ALL our public safety staff ACCROSS the USA. He did mention that we should be praying for the gunman and the police officers in Dallas he killed (at the Black Lives Matter rally). He only referenced it and did not make any specific remarks about it, just that it was a terrible tragedy. Father Val more often than not just asks us to pray for these events. He may have personal beliefs about presidential candidates, but I have never heard him express any of his view.  He has not mentioned the presidential race or its tone at all.  for this reason, there has been no effect on my thoughts or beliefs about the campaign from church a way. But I know after church at the social hour people talk. [I understand you wish for your pastor to talk about the race, how would you want him to do this? What do you feel is appropriate or not?] I think it's appropriate to speak about what characteristics we should look out for or want to see in a candidate without specifying names euphemisms tic references to actual candidates or political parties. I mean sometimes it's helpful to hear the values of a third party. And it doesn't have to be a list of polarizing views but it's good to hear what spiritual leaders are putting out there as standards for us to seek in our candidates. I don't feel it is appropriate for pastor to say who they are voting for or tell us a specific candidate is good or bad.  


	➢	This Sunday I did attend a service that I haven't been in a very long time. The pastor was talking about the trouble that has been going on this past week. It is a very scary time in the USA. My heart is heavy with all the hate in this world. He spoke on how we need to forgive the shooter and the killing of those two black men. He also spoke on how if Mr. Trump had his way this would become our new normal. That's scares me to death. He also said that we need to be prepared for the worst. Mr. Trump has so much to learn about compassion, and about forgiveness and for us to pray for him.

	➢	Our pastor did not say anything in this sermon regarding the presidential race, he spoke mainly about building family and the shootings of the past week. He has mentioned the race in the past and has done a sermon series about servant leadership. The congregation prayed for our future leaders. I don't know if I would want to hear my pastor's views on politics, at least not from the pulpit. That seems to run the risk of being judgmental. He has not said anything about the tone.

	➢	My pastor had not talked about the candidates specifically, but he has mentioned the tone of the campaign. Mostly joking about how difficult it is to find someone worth voting for. It hadn't impacted my thoughts about the campaign.

	➢	I attended a service yesterday, and no mention of the presidential race. Why? Because politics should never be mentioned in church. We don't go to "politic house" to worship politicians on Sundays, we go to church to worship God. If my church talks about the campaign, the tone of the campaign, or expresses pro-trump or pro-Hillary ideas I will walk out and not return. Just sayin.

	➢	When I went to Mass yesterday almost all of the service was about the tragedy that happened in Dallas. Not much was said about the presidential race, it kind of took a back seat to Dallas. It wouldn't matter to me if my Priest said anything bad about Donald Trump because my mind is made up and he is who I'm voting for. I would never vote for Hillary Clinton after what the FBI said about her. [Hello, what specifically about the FBI turns you completely away from Clinton? I understand that it would not matter to you if the Priest discussed the election, but what is your position if you did not know who you were voting for?] the FBI investigated her actions with the emails and ruled they weren't going to indicate. her. this made me mad. if she is that careless with top secret information I believe she would be careless as president. plus, she is going to owe a lot of people favors and it's going to be Obama all over again. she should of been held responsible for her actions. I still believe in Donald Trump; he is the best of the two running.  

	➢	The Pastor spoke about tolerance and practicing Christ like principals in our daily lives he spoke about it's not enough to read out bible on Sunday's and ignore the same tenants in out day to day lives I don’t recall is pastor mentions Donald trump directly  as far as what in would like to her I think it would be spiritually beneficial to have the what you shouldn't do or practice in day to day interactions and how Donald trump could be forgiven if he asked for it and acknowledged that even he isn't about Gods wrath

	➢	I did attend Sunday School and church this past Sunday morning.  Our pastor spoke on unity in the body of Christ and how this relates to the lack of unity we see in our country especially in regards to this week's past shootings and protests.  He also spoke on racism and how we as Christians should view and not tolerate any form of racism.  It was a very challenging sermon since I live in an area of the country and attend a church that is predominantly white like me.  It was also good because he gave suggestions on how we can raise our children to not view the world in terms of race.  Our pastor did not speak directly on how this relates to the upcoming election or in regards to any candidates but it did make me personally think about how the candidates would or would not be able to bring unity back to our country. Our pastors do briefly mention the Presidential race at times but it is more in passing than giving us specific advice or information in regards to the candidates.  They tend to focus more on how we live in a broken world and no politician alone can change that.  Instead, our country needs revival and more of a return to following and sharing God's Word.  They believe that much of the turmoil in society is an opportunity for us to share the Gospel with those individuals and our pastors challenge us not to be discouraged by these times of uncertainty in our country but to firmly anchor our hope and faith in Jesus Christ. I have not heard any of the pastors speak from the pulpit on the tone of the Presidential campaign and nothing specific from the pulpit has impacted how I think about the tone of the campaign.

	➢	During our church service, the pastor was preaching from I Timothy, God's good goal for the church, chapter 6. He did not say anything specificity about the election. What I would like to hear is what he's already said - that it's more important to not get into fights with people over these issues. He has not said anything specifically about the issues or the candidates of the election. He has made general references to the tone of the election indicating how sad it is that things have degenerated to the level that they have. What he said only confirmed what I was already thinking.

	➢	My pastor has not talked specifically about the Presidential races, but a couple of months ago, he did speak about the plight of the immigrants, the ones Donald Trump has spoken about turning away.  In a roundabout way, I believe that was his way of pointing out the flaws in Trump's beliefs without endorsing one candidate. There has not, however, been any discussion or sermon about the upcoming election. We did attend services this past weekend. The sermon did not tie in with the election or the candidates' tone. As far as what I would like to hear from our pastors and how their faith guides them, I think it would be nice for them to tie in Biblical passages with the candidate’s viewpoint on some issues. I mentioned earlier about welcoming Muslim immigrants into our country but as a church, we've heard about the views on gay marriage and Planned Parenthood. I believe those are important issues to be addressed and to have scriptures to confirm our beliefs as they relate to each candidate (and what they represent) would be helpful in these conflicted times.

	➢	The minister has not talked about the presidential campaign or past or present. [Hello, why do you think your minister has not talked about presidential elections, past or present? Do you prefer this or not?] My pastor says to pray for the nation and that we need to pray for the upcoming election.  I guess in that way he talks about the election. I agree with him that we need to pray for our nation. FYI I live in Philly but all of my family lives in Colorado, (where I'm from originally).  Therefore, we don't attend the same church but I will be going to Colorado next week so I'm going to talk to my family about the election.  I usually try to avoid politics because we don't usually see things the same way.


Activity Eight: Scripture References
We will now provide you with a list of six scripture teachings. Think about which would be most important to you when thinking about who to support for President. Please rank them from the one most important, next most important and all the way to the one least important. Mark the most important with a one and the least important with a six.
Total Tallies

Ranked by 1st among all 
All
1st 
2nd
3rd
4th
5th
6th
“So in everything, do to others what you would have them do to you, for this sums up the Law and the Prophets.”
15
9
7
5
9
4
“Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you.”
13
14
6
10
4
2
“My dear brothers and sisters, take note of this: Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak and slow to become angry”
9
9
8
14
8
1
“Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.”
6
5
7
4
10
17
“I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give account for every careless word they speak, for by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.”
4
7
9
6
10
13
“Blessed are the merciful, for they will receive mercy.”
1
5
12
10
7
14


Tallies by Segment

Ranked by 1st among all
Total 
1st 
CATHOLIC WOMEN
MILLENIAL EVANGELICALS
EVANGELICAL WOMEN
1st 
2nd
3rd
4th
5th
6th
1st 
2nd
3rd
4th
5th
6th
1st 
2nd
3rd
4th
5th
6th
“So in everything, do to others what you would have them do to you, for this sums up the Law and the Prophets.”
15
8
1
3
1
3
0
3
2
2
4
3
2
4
6
2
0
3
2
“Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you.”
13
2
7
1
2
2
2
5
2
3
4
2
0
6
5
2
4
0
0
“My dear brothers and sisters, take note of this: Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak and slow to become angry”
9
5
2
2
4
3
0
2
5
2
4
2
1
2
2
4
6
3
0
“Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.”
6
0
3
2
1
4
6
4
2
4
0
3
3
2
0
1
3
3
8
“I tell you, on the day of judgment people will give account for every careless word they speak, for by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.”
4
1
2
3
2
2
6
2
2
3
2
2
5
1
3
3
2
6
2
“Blessed are the merciful, for they will receive mercy.”
1
0
1
5
6
2
2
0
3
2
2
4
5
1
1
5
2
1
7

If you felt anything was left out, please let us know (cut out anyone who said no or n/a)
Catholic
	➢	I like the words to the song, "We Are Many Parts" and often think about how those words make me feel a sense of unity. "We are many parts, we are all one body and the gifts we have, we are given to share."

	➢	I always get the feeling that these scriptures are like a warning that you better be a good person, which I don't care for, but they do seem like good lessons to follow. [Hi. Why do you feel these scriptures are like warnings? Warnings towards who or warnings from who?] Because you won't go to heaven if you don't follow what you are being told. Or you might end up in purgatory because you aren't quite good enough.

	➢	Treat others as you'd want to be treated...sums it up as most important to me.


Millennial Evangelical

	➢	I put these in the order that most seemed to provide a gospel timeline. The reality is each of these scriptures need serious context not just what is surrounding them, but the context of the doctrines of justification, sanctification, and an understanding of redemptive history throughout the whole Bible. Otherwise a lot of these verses come off as very legalistic and "do-good" theology, which may be PC in the political sphere, but Christians are called to something far higher, and that is preaching the Gospel. (Male)

	➢	What's being left out is the fact that we assume Trump is a Christian. The rules outlined in the scriptures for there for how Christians need to live their lives. Christians need to hold one another accountable to the scriptures, and not hold unbelievers to them.  Trump says he's a Christian, but I am not convinced. (Female)

	➢	I feel that, among these, the scripture regarding showing compassion to others plays the greatest role in my decision making in general and during the election. I would also say that other ideas often play a larger role in how I think about politics, particularly that of personal rights that all humans have, but I believe that these rights come from God as well. (Male)

	➢	I picked the order I did because I'm a conservative, but I would like to see conservatives show more kindness and mercy towards others and less arrogance. (Female)

	➢	We need to know God's thoughts and understand His will. “For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways,” declares the Lord. “As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. [Does this mean you feel this should be included? If so, where would you rank it among the others?] I would rank this as number one because if we press on to know God and follow Him then everything else will go well. Hosea 6:3 Oh, that we might know the LORD! Let us press on to know him. He will respond to us as surely as the arrival of dawn or the coming of rains in early spring." Deut 12:28 Be careful to obey all these regulations I am giving you, so that it may always go well with you and your children after you, because you will be doing what is good and right in the eyes of the LORD your God. (Male)

Evangelical Women

	➢	Should have had versus to talk about judgment day. [Why do you believe a verse about Judgment Day is needed? Where would that verse rank among the ones shown?] Yes, I do believe that versus about judgment day should of been in the video. It is going to happen and everyone needs to be aware. Especially Mr. Trump. Versus about the tribulation and the rapture needs to be preached. Second coming of Christ also....

	➢	I think we are to always show kindness and mercy and use those as barometers for politicians. When we don't see those traits, that is not the right person to run a nation.

	➢	These people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. Matthew 15:8

	➢	I REALLY don't know WHY EITHER candidate would use scripture in any way shape or form as NEITHER really show themselves to be FULLY committed Christians.

	➢	Mark 9:35 ..."so you want first place?  Then take the last place.  Be the servant of all. "

	➢	Is this purely a Hate-Trump forum? Why so many "when did you stop beating your wife" questions to corner me into hating Trump? Both of these candidates are horribly flawed. But you only seem focused on exposing that about one of them, and are ignoring the other. Hillary, is that you on the other end of this gizmo? Have a nice day. Please repent and try to be honest. Thanks.

	➢	treat other's as you would like to be treated

	➢	I think that the most important quality is to be humble.

	➢	My only thoughts on this are that several of these verses are often taken out of context. I personally would not think of any of these verses when deciding on who to vote for. The one verse I do think of when voting is Romans 13:1 which says no one is in authority except those appointed by God. This leads me to pray about who I should vote for. [Why would you not think of these verses when deciding who to vote for? How are they taken out of context?] To fully understand a verse, it is important to understand what context it is in. I can't see the verses now, and I don't remember all of them, but for example the one on mercy, is right in the middle of the Beatitudes, which is actually a small piece of the sermon on the mount. (3 chapters long). There was one from Proverbs, which is usually ok to take just one verse and apply it since a lot of the book is simply short proverbs to live by. Another one was the Golden Rule which is also a part of the sermon on the Mount but a couple chapters after the Beatitudes. Why not use the entire sermon on the mount to judge how Trump is doing as a person? But, in the same sermon on the mount we are told not to judge others. Therefore, none of the verses given would be something I would consider when voting for a president. I would love to have a Christian president in office, but I'm not sure when the last time was that we had a Christian president. Probably not in my lifetime, although most claim to be Christians just as Trump does. Clinton claimed to be a Christian, but yet had an affair while in the Whitehouse. If a candidate claims to be a Christian, the first thing I will look for is if his or her lifestyle honors God. If it does not, then I know it is just another "American Christian" and I look at other things when deciding who to vote for. Remembering that no matter what, whoever gets into office gets there as part of God's sovereign plan.  

	➢	Rank # 1 Proverbs 11:3 - The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.




Activity Ten: Negative Trump Statements
Like in our last session, please imagine you are at lunch with a friend who is a person of faith who gives you the following reasons to vote against Donald Trump. Please rank the top three statements that concern you the most about Donald Trump and discuss the reasons you choose those statements. Also, tell us what you would say in response to your friend about the ones you choose and any that do not concern you.  

Trump Negative Statement Tallies

 
All
CATHOLIC WOMEN
MILLENIAL EVANGELICALS
EVANGELICAL WOMEN
1st
2nd
3rd
CMBD
1st
2nd
3rd
CMBD
1st
2nd
3rd
CMBD
1st
2nd
3rd
CMBD
Donald Trump wants to be President, the face of America and a role model to our children, but he routinely calls people names, brags and lashes out in anger.
18
8
9
35
8
5
1
14
5
1
2
8
5
2
6
13
Donald Trump does not live up to American values. This country was founded on the principle of being a beacon of hope to those seeking a better life, but he attacks refugees and immigrants. Many of the original American settlers were fleeing religious persecution, yet he supports stopping religious people from entering the country because of their faith. 
9
7
6
22
3
0
3
6
5
4
2
11
1
3
1
5
Donald Trump wants to be President, but doesn’t show respect for women. He has routinely criticized women for their appearances and weight, and made crude sexual comments. We need a President who respects others, doesn’t treat them with disrespect. 
5
11
7
23
2
2
4
8
1
4
1
6
2
5
2
9
Donald Trump says he is a Christian, but he has not behaved that way in his personal life. He is on his third marriage and ended his first marriage because he was having an affair with his second wife. 
5
5
10
20
1
2
2
5
2
0
3
5
2
3
5
10
Donald Trump has mocked a disabled reporter for his disability. We need someone in the White House who respects the dignity of people like the disabled, not someone that insults them.
5
6
9
20
1
4
4
9
2
0
3
5
2
2
2
6
Donald Trump has attacked Muslim refugees, calling for a ban on them entering the United States. These refugees are fleeing persecution, and Christ taught us to help those in need.
5
6
3
14
0
0
1
1
1
5
2
8
4
1
0
5
Donald Trump attacks the least among us, such as undocumented immigrants who struggle to make a living and raise their families. Trump attacks them for political gain, threatening to deport them and tear apart Christian families where some young children are citizens but their parents are not. 
2
5
4
11
1
2
0
3
0
2
3
5
1
1
1
3




Donald Trump wants to be President, the face of America and a role model to our children, but he routinely calls people names, brags and lashes out in anger.

Please tell us what led you to select this issue. What makes that issue one of the most concerning?  Imagine you are candidly talking to a friend who has never followed politics and has no political leanings, they are essentially a blank slate but also a person of faith. Tell them why they should also support the same position you do.  

Catholic Women

1st Choice

	➢	I certainly wouldn't think of Trump as a role model for any child. He acts like one himself. He is rude, obnoxious, selfish, bullying, and a braggart. I can't see what kind of a role model he could possibly be. I can think of a lot better choices.  

	➢	First, my friend would be right and I would add that Trump doesn't show respect for other people by calling them names and bragging about himself. Lashing out in anger is very disturbing because as President you should be able to conduct yourself in a calm, thoughtful and logical manner and not fly off the handle. In those times when anger controls our emotions, we might not be thinking clearly and therefore can make a mistake we might regret.

	➢	"I choose this statement: Donald Trump wants to be President, the face of America and a role model to our children, but he routinely calls people names, brags and lashes out in anger. We are constantly telling our children to set good examples, and never to bully or tolerate being bullied.  Here we are faced with a presidential candidate that does nothing but bully and speak poorly to and about people. I can tell you exactly what I'd say to a friend because this conversation has taken place on many occasions.  I say, whether or not you like, voted, or support President Obama, he is a man of character.  He is the face of our nation and he is a good role model.  He acts in a ""presidential manner"" that is nothing but respectful and compassionate.  He is a family man, he treats his wife and daughter's with respect.  He does not bully people or slander them in the public eye.  He carries himself in a poised, controlled manner. "

	➢	"This is why Donald trump would not be a good president. He has numerously insulted all kinds of people publicly We cannot have a president who acts like this. Other countries would not even respect us " 

	➢	"First off, all these statements concern me about Trump. Number 1 Donald Trump wants to be President, the face of America and a role model to our children, but he routinely calls people names, brags and lashes out in anger.... I think this one is a biggie because I believe the President needs to be level-headed. He is not. He always feels ready to attack. He is always on guard. Sometimes you need to sit and reflect on situations. He doesn't seem very capable of doing that. Plus, I think he would have a hard time listening to advice from advisers.

	➢	This statement encompasses so much of Donald Trump’s hate and overall attitude toward most people. He is supposed to be a leader not a bully.  

	➢	I think the first statement pretty well says it all.  He has continuously made fun of people.  He has no tolerance for anyone different from him.  Everyone else is wrong.  Our country is already in turmoil and by him spewing all this hate is only making it worse.  He is a role model for no one.  I cannot understand how intelligent people think he is Presidential material.  

	➢	I find Donald Trump's behavior like that of a spoiled and uncontrollable child. I do not think that he is a role model for our youth or as a leader representing out nation if he continues to lose his temper and lash out at people using insults and demeaning comments. I would advise Trump on stopping such inappropriate behavior and showing more socially acceptable, respectful and considerate behavior towards others.  He needs to be an example for young and impressionable people on how to act in public and professional situations.

2nd Choice

	➢	Trump needs to be able to respect people. he will be dealing with officials from other countries and around the US. He needs to be able to not make them angry by disrespecting them when he has meetings”

	➢	Donald Trump wants to be President, the face of America and a role model to our children, but he routinely calls people names, brags and lashes out in anger. This is my second concern about Trump because a prideful person has a lot of secrets and insecurities that would make me hesitant in thinking of their capabilities to run a country. It makes him appear egotistical and narcissistic to where only his ideas and concerns matter. I'm not saying to be a role model you have to reach everyone on a positive level because not everyone will be tuned in to that idea but you have to at least be positive to a majority of viewers. If your whole demeanor is coming off abrasive, then you are losing that majority of people who want you to lead them.

	➢	"I chose this statement as every time I think of Trump being President I have to shake my head in shame.  Mr. Trump is just too unstable to be President as he is full of anger and hate in his heart that he would destroy America. The US needs someone that is a strong lead and can bring family and moral values back and Mr. Trump will never be able to do this as he is a bigot and racist and does not understand people." 

	➢	All of us are American. Trump wants to represent all of us. If he can't be civil while trying to earn our respect and votes I'm scared how he'll behave if he is in charge of everything.

	➢	He does not appear as a role model with a poor choice of words and actions which make him appear egocentric.

3rd Choice

	➢	"I chose this point because I feel it is important to be the example not the problem, especially when you are trying to take on a position of power such as this. Trump portrays himself in such a poor light.  He is not so much of a Christian man as ever when he displays such behavior. He is not setting a good example for our future generations. He is basically telling them it is ok to act like this. That it is ok to disrespect women, and make fun of people with disabilities, and have affairs. He is a terrible role model"

Millennial Evangelicals 

1st Choice

	➢	"I think this statement encompasses most of the choices. I am not sure I could say much to my friend other than that I totally agree with him or her. Do we really want to set an example for our kids for the next four years showing that this type of behavior is acceptable?" (Male)

	➢	I chose this statement because I believe that many of Trump's negative aspects stem from the fact that he behaves and speaks so brashly. I do not think it would be wise for the United States to elect such a person to the highest office in the nation. I would say that I agree with the friend who said this statement, but I would add that I'm not as concerned with children seeing him as a role model. When I as a child, I never really looked to the President as a role model, and neither did the majority of my peers. (Male)

	➢	I would say that yes, this may be true, but he knows how it is to be called those names. He is trying, but he is lashing out to protect himself. It is just like any other person. (Female)

	➢	Donald Trump seems to be an intelligent man. He wouldn't have made it this far in the business world if he wasn't intelligent. He must know that calling people names, mocking people, and brags in a negative way. He must know that these behaviors would impact his presidential campaign negatively, but he just won't control himself. This is scary. It tells me that he reacts emotionally without thinking, and that sort of behavior will be devastating for a nation let by somebody like that with that sort of power. This is exactly what I would tell a friend. I'm not bashful about speaking my mind about this to a true friend. (Female)

	➢	I may never know his what his heart is truly towards God, and we'll never agree or come to agreement concerning Muslims and immigrants (primarily because of 9/11 and the continued terror attacks around the world). But we can clearly make a judgement call on Trump's outward behavior, and he does not behave in a manner that is worthy of the gospel or of the White House. (Female)

2nd Choice

	➢	This is true in a number of cases.  I think he tends to speak first and think later, which can be a dangerous character trait in a political leader. (Male)

3rd Choice

	➢	We do not need a leader who is unable to control his anger by lashing out like a child (Male)


	➢	We need someone to lead America into a better state, not lead us into war. Trump lashes out at his own people and to the media and minorities, he had said disrespectful things to leaders of other countries, how can we trust him to lead the country. Do we want our children to grow up thinking being rude and hateful is okay? (Female)

Evangelical Women 

1st Choice

	➢	Cause he wants to be the voice and face of our nation. That's a complete embarrassment to us. 

	➢	I agree, it's hard to distinguish whether he wants to serve this country at all.  He comes off as someone merely seeking power by preying on those weaker than him.  I'm not sure that he is the person I want setting an example to my children.

	➢	Trump is a bully.   He has very little respect for the common man.  This country does not need a bully for president. 

	➢	My main reasoning is we teach our children how to behave not only at home but out in the world when Donald trump demand indulges in name calling stupid loser and rhetoric that appeals and stokes the fires of anti-Semite it's very in Christian like on many levels he reinforces hate mongering 

	➢	The only thing I don't like about Donald Trump is that he is to outspoken. Some things are better off unsaid. He does need to tone down. I agree with his policy's.

2nd Choice

	➢	I would never want my children to look up to trump.  And i would never think of him as a role model.  Name calling is unacceptable.  He’s a big bully 

	➢	Again this does not concern or bother me. Again I find it refreshing to find someone who is not concerned what the PC police are going to say. Everyone else is scripted and researched and everything is carefully calibrated to be pandering and it's boring and we can see right through it. Is Trump offensive? Yep. He is. But so what. I don't think that a president who is polite is going to necessarily get anything done.

3rd Choice

	➢	It's true I don't like his attitude towards other people and his anger. He will have to learn patience and statesmanship. But I trust him far more then Clinton. She has been caught lying so much and people seem to keep letting her get by with it. 

	➢	"I am a teacher and I regularly teach my students to be positive about others.  ""Bullies don't fare well in the school yard, eventually they get beat up. How do you think Trump is going to fare with his verbal bullying tactics in the international school yard? I really don't want to find out!"""

	➢	I completely agree that there are better role models for our children.  I see this as an opportunity to educate our children why his behavior at times is unacceptable as a Christian and to pray for him to see how he needs to show more self-control.  I do not see the Clinton family as a role model for our children either and we need to explain our vote for Trump so our children understand why we are supporting him.  

	➢	We do need a president who will be a role model, I don't want my children seeing his rudeness and disrespect for others, then believing they can act the same way. 

	➢	I picked this one because, again, it has the same idea as the others. Our choice in this election is voting for the pathological liar who has corruption and scandal follow her wherever she goes. 

	➢	How can anyone justify him as a role model for the young people today?  The way he calls people names, and lashes out in anger is just disgraceful.  He should never be put in a place of power.


Donald Trump wants to be President, but doesn’t show respect for women. He has routinely criticized women for their appearances and weight, and made crude sexual comments. We need a President who respects others, doesn’t treat them with disrespect. 

Catholic Women

1st Choice


	➢	I agree with the statement. Someone who can't respect women should not be in office.  Women have made great strides to get where we are. and someone like Trump might make it hard for women to keep moving forward.

	➢	"They are all important personal observations, but I chose the one that illustrates his lack of regard for others in respect to doctrine. How can we expect him to be bipartisan or negotiate meat with other government officials in this respect?"

2nd Choice

	➢	"I am a Woman and I do not support someone who wants to treat women like we are 2nd class citizens. We have fought too long and hard for our equal rights. We work just as hard as anyone and we deserve to be treated with respect. We are not beneath him or any man. Putting down women makes you the weak one. Tearing them down and belittling is still a form of abuse. It’s not okay to act in such a manner. "

	➢	"This is the second most concerning statement: Donald Trump wants to be President, but doesn’t show respect for women. He has routinely criticized women for their appearances and weight, and made crude sexual comments. We need a President who respects others, doesn’t treat them with disrespect. This ties into exactly what I said for the first most concerning statement.  Trump does not act in a ""presidential manner"“.  NO ONE should stand for someone calling them names and making fun of them.  This is not who we as Americans should look to run our nation.  this is the exact conversation I have with friends when discussing Trumps behavior."

3rd Choice

	➢	Third, Trump disrespects women and treats them badly. This disrespect shows the same poor judgement as disrespecting the disabled in my previous comment. If someone isn't perfect, should they, their feeling, their knowledge and what they share in life be disregarded? I don't think so. Everyone has something to offer no matter what their circumstances should be.

	➢	"This is again an awful way for a presidential candidate to behave. He needs to keep his opinions to himself and be more respectful. Hiw can we respect him "

	➢	As a woman I am quite offended by many things Mr. Trump says. Women have made so much progress toward equality in the last hundred years, yet he only sees women as objects and clearly has no respect for us as human beings.

	➢	I do find it very offensive that Trump has degraded women with his insults, comments and bullying tactics.  He has since apologized but he displays behavior that is quite degrading. It is unbelievable that he gets away with what he does and in such an open and obtrusive manner. He has a wife, daughter and family members that are female. I am not sure he would allow others to mock and insult those close to him as he has done to others.

Millennial Evangelicals 

1st Choice

	➢	With the increasing number of sexual predators, sex before marriage, single moms, rapes, and general sexual immorality, we do not need a president that encourages these types of things with a detestable example. Donald Trump is not a quality individual but he should try to at least refrain from encouraging these types of detrimental behaviors. His marriage situation is terrible and he has even said that he would date his own daughter. He needs to stop saying such foolish sexual remarks. (Male)

2nd Choice

	➢	The biggest problem with Trump's speaking on women is that it is perpetuating an issue. I want to blatantly clear, I am against feminism, especially the way it has moved over the past ten years. However, I am pro complementarian beliefs and that there are women rights we ought to protect, and there are roles we ought to honor that are bestowed specifically to women. Trump though, leans to the side of Patriarchy and sexism, that is not only intolerable, but also perpetuates and instigates, what feminists are claiming anything against them looks like, and that is not going to help long term. (Male)

	➢	Considering about half of voters are female, he needs to start considering them in a higher esteem that a body that's there to look pretty and available for the menfolk. Good grief, what decade is this man living in? When he's president, he won't be hiring any females for positions of power and decision-making. (Female)

	➢	With abortion and pro-choice vs pro-life and the fight between militant feminism and pro-woman movements we need a president who is on the side of women everywhere. The president needs to make the safety of women and the sanctity of life a priority, and Trump won't do that if he is so careless with his words and attitudes towards women. (Female)

	➢	America has come such a long way when it comes to gender equality.  However, there is still a long way to go. This statement is very concerning because I believe his attitude and actions will inhibit the further progress of the equality of women. (Female)

3rd Choice

	➢	"I just feel this is an important reason to single out. I can't disagree with you! What is going to happen, if elected President, when he has to work with a woman in a leadership position in another country? International relationships could go sour. On top of that, making fun or comments toward anyone is just wrong." (Male)

Evangelical Women 

1st Choice

	➢	I find trump highly offensive.  Especially towards woman.  The things he says are so demeaning.  "This is my biggest concern about Trump-that he does not meet the basic requirements of at least acting presidential. 

	➢	In response, I would have to Agree, the choice in this election is the bully vs the criminal.  The best thing I can say about her is that Scandal and corruption seem to follow her wherever she goes. "

2nd Choice

	➢	"I am a woman. I have daughters whom I am striving to raise to be confident, responsible, and self-aware human beings. I refuse to elect a man who demeans and degrades women.  ""So you would be ok if Trump was speaking to your daughter and told her she was fat, needed to go on a diet, and oh, was not as capable as a man in the world of business?"""

	➢	The name calling is juvenile.  A president needs to have feelings for the public and keep personal opinions to a minimum or not at all! 

	➢	I chose this because it has been a reoccurring and disturbing fact while trump has been a candidate and preciously in his personal like .... Acting like a bully really detracts from any positive domestic platform he may promote .... And for me months of it has really impacted my impression and willingness to ignore 

	➢	As in the question before this, Donald Trump just has to learn when to keep his mouth shut and not say a lot of what comes into his mind.

	➢	Again, he doesn't have the right to judge women in that way.  Sexual comments are totally wrong.  Most Americans are overweight so where does he get off thinking that it is okay to make comments like that towards women.

3rd Choice

	➢	I selected this one mainly because of the disrespect. Trump has shown disrespect to women and also people with disabilities and pretty much anyone different than him. I do not want our leader to make it acceptable to tear others down for our own personal gain. It makes him look little and petty. But if we allow someone to become president who behaves this way, it starts to normalize it. That would be terrible.

	➢	Women make up roughly half of the population.  We deserve respect and an equal opportunity to voice our opinion.  This behavior shows outright disrespect for us. He doesn't value our opinion unless we are being the obedient cheerleader. If he is trying to put us down and silence us now, what will happen if and when he ends up in office?


Donald Trump says he is a Christian, but he has not behaved that way in his personal life. He is on his third marriage and ended his first marriage because he was having an affair with his second wife. 

Catholic Women

1st Choice

	➢	"Donald Trump says he is a Christian, but he has not behaved that way in his personal life. He is on his third marriage and ended his first marriage because he was having an affair with his second wife. This is my top concerning issue because fidelity in a marriage is probably the most prominent trait for both husband and wife. If you go against it, you're going against the 10 commandments as well. I think infidelity is a horrible characteristic in any person because it comes across that you can't be loyal to the one person how can you be loyal to your country.

2nd Choice

	➢	"2) Donald Trump says he is a Christian, but he has not behaved that way in his personal life. He is on his third marriage and ended his first marriage because he was having an affair with his second wife. Here is an excellent example, of someone who professes to have Christian values, but then he behaves in a manner that is totally against Christian values. This concerns me, that someone like this would be elected. A man who cheats on his wife and family, not just once, is a person who has no honor, and no business being President.

	➢	I really don't think his personal life should have a great bearing on his competence to run the country.  I'm sure most of the previous presidents have quite a few skeletons in their closets.  With Trump it’s just that we know most of them.  Christianity means not hurting others and treating everyone with respect.  He does not do that but I don't think it has anything to do with his previous marriages or cheating.  Let's just focus on the important issues.

3rd Choice

	➢	3. Donald Trump says he is a Christian, but he has not behaved that way in his personal life. He is on his third marriage and ended his first marriage because he was having an affair with his second wife.... This is an example of how Trump does not represent Christian values. He claims he does, but this shows he does not. He is a very selfish man.

	➢	"I’m not sure how Mr. Trump can call himself a Christian with a straight face for the way he has lived his life that is why I picked this as # 3.  If you want to tell a person what a non-Christian lifestyle is you can point them to Mr. Trump. Aside from multiple marriages he has been accused of lying about his investment school and cheating people out of their money, he had lied about business deals plus he is not at all honest about his net worth. Mr. Trump shows to compassion towards others plus he has no respect for anyone from the way he cusses and degrades people."

Millennial Evangelicals 

1st Choice

	➢	This goes along with what I said earlier in this study, neither of the two candidates exude the fruit of the Spirit. Trump's divorces are just one of numerous examples in both candidates. The reason this concerns me is his clear lack of understanding of Christian faith and Christian doctrine. If he is so faulty in this important a topic and issue, how can we trust him on many other issues we face in our world and culture today. (Male)

	➢	I believe that integrity is a fundamental value that a President should have. Integrity regarding one's Christian faith to me is of the highest importance as I believe that as a Christian that other Christians should be judged more strictly. I would rather have an atheistic President who is consistent with their actions and words than someone who claims to be a Christian who consistently isn't. (Male)

3rd Choice

	➢	This one concerns me because I would like to have a man or woman of faith as my leader, and his history casts serious doubt about his faith. I would respond to my friend that I agree that I am concerned about his previous lifestyle, but even so I cannot say for sure if he is saved or not. I know many good Christian men that have made mistakes and asked the Lord for forgiveness. Though I don't know that Trump is like these men. (Male)

	➢	I don't think this issue is as important as many of the problems we face domestically and abroad, but I think it sums up one of the other issues I have with Trump. True, I find it offensive that he claims to be a Christian while behaving the way he does, but I think this also exposes him as an opportunist. I would tell the friend that I agree with his statement and would also add the fact that Trump does not believe that he needs to ask forgiveness for his sins. (Male)

	➢	I don't understand how anyone can back up his claims to Christianity; Trump does not act in a manner worthy of the gospel. (Female)

Evangelical Women 

1st Choice

	➢	"I always want a Christian leader, so I know we are coming from the same place and share the same values. But with Trump, he does not seem to live out those beliefs. In regard to his marriages, I cannot pretend to understand what all went on behind closed doors. It is terrible that he cheated, but we are to forgive. None of us is without sin, so I don't feel led to judge his sins. It makes me sad that this happens, but all I can do is pray for the country and our future leaders. And pray for the choice we make in November."

	➢	I chose this one, because Trump is claiming to be a Christian but there is absolutely nothing in his lifestyle that reflects a Christian lifestyle. If being a Christian were the only factor I used to vote, (it is not, but just as an example), I would rule him out because of his lifestyle.

2nd Choice

	➢	I believe God can use anyone. If he can use a donkey, he can use Trump! No one can saw that his faith might not change with his increased awareness of looking out for our nation.

	➢	She needs to read the bible...he isn't humble; he isn't polite he has no respect for others especially women. All of these plus other things will get him nowhere, he needs to sit and read some scripture

	➢	Hey friend, let he who is without sin cast the first stone. When all humans are perfect we can talk. I loved Jesus and God and had strong faith before being "saved." A person can try to be Christian without having undergone this deep healing epiphany. I see Trump as there. Rather than tear him to shreds, try to lead him to repentance and salvation! Jesus would approve.

3rd Choice

	➢	I definitely don't think trump acts according to a Christian.  His behavior says otherwise.  3 marriages, cheating, lying, affairs.  

	➢	I believe that I am a true Christian meaning I believe that Jesus is the judge. I am not the judge. It is not up to me to be a reader of hearts. It is not up to me to judge people for their mistakes or their lifestyles. My job is to love people as Christ would have done. Jesus accepted people of all walks of life. He hung out with tax collectors and prostitutes and sinners of every stripe and was criticized roundly for that by the religious leaders, hypocrites, of his day. Therefore, I don't feel qualified to criticize anybody for their lifestyle. To do so is not Christian. Many politicians are on their 3rd wife. It's simply not a major concern of any type for me. And once again I would like to point out that the way that is study is set up is misleading and manipulative. I was forced to pick three things that don't concern me.

	➢	I will not judge.  God's Word says not to judge, lest you be judged.  We all have short comings.

	➢	I believe the main reason inch downturns as number three is not so much that he has outwardly violated Christian principles with an adultery etc. it’s that he has criticized individuals for their moral indiscretions but seemingly he is exempt 

	➢	All Christians are sinners but the difference is we know and we try to amend for our transgressions and atone for them. Christ forgives us our actions and words, but Donald Trump does not appear to have learned the error of his ways, he continues to live the life he wants, not the life Christ has called him to lead. I don't believe he is a Christian any more than my cat is.


Donald Trump has mocked a disabled reporter for his disability. We need someone in the White House who respects the dignity of people like the disabled, not someone that insults them.

Catholic Women

1st Choice

	➢	"I chose this statement as I was the most shocked by Mr. Trumps words and actions when it came to the disabled reporter.  Can you believe that someone would act that way towards a disabled person? I don't understand how he made it through the primaries with the way he acts. Mr. Trump has no compassion towards people that are not like him. Mr. Trump acts like a 10-year-old school yard bully."

2nd Choice

	➢	"Again this is just another reason. He needs to clean up his act. What are we teaching our children if we allow a president to behave like this”?

	➢	"Number 2 - Donald Trump has mocked a disabled reporter for his disability. We need someone in the White House who respects the dignity of people like the disabled, not someone that insults them.... This should be a very simple thing for him to understand. He is just set on being a bully. What kind of a person over the age of maybe 12, makes fun of someone because they have a disability? I know so many children who would not even do this. Trump has little common sense.

	➢	Donald Trump has mocked a disabled reporter for his disability. We need someone in the White House who respects the dignity of people like the disabled, not someone that insults them.

	➢	It is appalling to see a leader and representative demean the sanctity of human life.  I was unaware that he had acted in such a repulsive manner until I saw a television ad against him. I find it deplorable that he had the nerve to behave such a way and in public for all to see and witness.  He should have apologized if he hadn't and work towards uplifting the human spirit rather than tearing it down.  As an example, Michael Vick, a famous football quarterback was sent to prison for endorsing dog fighting and animal abuse. As part of his social justice and community service program he focused on volunteering and donating funds to help animal rights activism.  Donald Trump should be focusing on the same for disabled people by donating time, effort, money, etc. to uphold their cause and dignity in order to make up for his senseless behavior and insulting antics.

3rd Choice

	➢	"Third: Donald Trump has mocked a disabled reporter for his disability. We need someone in the White House who respects the dignity of people like the disabled, not someone that insults them. I choose this because, I have a child with special needs and this is appalling that a person, let alone a presidential candidate would make fun of someone.   Along the same lines as my previous answers, this is awful.  What kind of role model, nation's leader would say such a horrible thing?  He is not a role model that I want my children or myself to have to look up to.  anyone who can disrespect so many people just because they are different should not be in charge of the country. The USA is very diverse, but Trump seems to only be concerned about certain people. plus, he should be able to respectfully deal with all kinds of people

	➢	"I don't really have any other concerns on the other statements but chose the disabled one. The ones regarding women and people with disabilities I don't really find offensive. As a woman I've learned to have a thick backbone and don't really find his comments demeaning. I'm not overly sensitive and understand that he's trying to get a rise out of his bullyish remarks. When I've come across them in my personal life I've learned the more you pay attention to them the more they get a rise out of them and its just stupid remarks is all I really don't judge him as a man on them. And the same goes for people with disabilities too. I think with his comments he lashes out to get people to stop talking because he's trying to focus on another issue and it's meant to be a quick sarcastic insult and the media runs with it.

	➢	That was the most disgusting thing I have ever seen an official do.  Even if I ever was thinking of voting for him that would have stopped me.  He is such an egomaniac.  People he doesn't like and has made fun of, such as disabled people, women, immigrants would all probably lose any progress that we have made.  Programs would be cut and there would certainly be more homeless people because of no benefits.

	➢	anyone who can disrespect so many people just because they are different should not be in charge of the country. The USA is very diverse, but Trump seems to only be concerned about certain people. plus, he should be able to respectfully deal with all kinds of people

Millennial Evangelicals 

1st Choice

	➢	As an individual with a disability, Trump’s actions neither shocked nor upset me.  However, who’s to say if he gets elected that he wouldn't cut social security or similar benefits. (Male)

	➢	This is definitely the worst thing that I've heard of Trump doing. I can't defend him in this matter. He needs to do the work and dig himself out. People with disabilities can't help how they were born and I can't imagine how hurt this man probably is. (Female)

3rd Choice

	➢	He does this to everyone. He does not stand one person out. I do not think that it was because they were disabled, but the fact that the person they were was disturbing to him and he spoke his mind. If he did not speak his mind, then we would think that he was dishonest. (Female)

	➢	I would find this statement very concerning in terms of showing personal character. It shows a very severe distortion of soul. But again, I think practically anything is better than Hillary. So I would still go for Trump. It's inexcusable that Hillary has gotten away with the email scandal with no consequences. (Female)

	➢	This statement in general, is absolutely disgusting. While it is technically personal, I believe it speaks highly of the character of which Trump has.  I believe someone who lacks understanding for the disabled, has no right being in charge of others. A leader leads with humility. Donald Trump does not have humility. (Female)

Evangelical Women 

1st Choice

	➢	This survey unfairly presupposes that any of these comments actually bother me. In fact, they really don't. But I know you want comments on this so I will try to do my best and give you something to work with. I'll tell you why it doesn't bother me. I am tired of people who are afraid to say anything because they will be criticized for being not politically correct. Even if something is offensive. It is refreshing to see someone who will say what's on his mind and does not care what other people think. As I have said many times during the course of this study, I am not looking for moral leader and a president. It doesn't concern me. All I want is president who can help the economy because we're broke. If people wanted to elect someone who was a Christian, then the primary system would have produced a Christian candidate. But it did not. So there you go. The people have spoken!

	➢	I totally agree that this is totally unacceptable.  I happen to be disabled, and he should be fighting for the disabled person’s rights not making fun of them.

2nd Choice

	➢	At the very least, the person seeking the presidency should show respect to the people he serves.  All of the people, not just the attractive ones, the healthy ones, or the ones that agree with him.  This person is going to go to the table for us, make decisions that will directly affect our lives, shouldn't he or she at least respect our dignity?

	➢	I chose this one because it was so similar to the first one, really it's the same idea.  Again, the choice is the bully vs. the criminal

3rd Choice

	➢	How can a man make fun about a person with a disability that's just wrong? Jesus taught us to love all and be humble .... he is not 

	➢	Same as the last 2 questions, he has to learn when to be quiet and keep his remarks to himself. Other than that I am all for what he wants to do.

Donald Trump has attacked Muslim refugees, calling for a ban on them entering the United States. These refugees are fleeing persecution, and Christ taught us to help those in need.

Catholic Women

3rd Choice

	➢	"While I understand Trump’s knee jerk reaction, he is wrong to ban all Muslim refugees.  As a Presidential candidate he should also think before he speaks which seems to be a difficult task for him.   I’m not convinced all of the refugees are fleeing persecution but we must assume they are until we know otherwise.  Ronald Regan said “trust but verify”.  This is the position we must take.  Banning all Muslims is not the answer nor is putting all Muslims currently residing in the US on a list correct either.  When I heard Trump say this it brought visions of Nazi Germany and the persecution of the Jews.  That is a piece of history we don’t want to relive.  Yes, Christ teaches us to help those in need but we must also protect ourselves by vetting refugees to the full extent."

Millennial Evangelicals 

1st Choice

	➢	"The most concerning statement to me is the one about the Muslim refugees. I chose this because we cannot unilaterally ban an entire religious group from entering our country. We were founded by people seeking religious freedom. To ban them would be to lose who we are." (Male)

2nd Choice

	➢	While I wholly understand the fear of allowing foreign terrorists into the country, these people comprise a small segment of the Islamic faith community. We cannot harm the many due to the crimes of a few.  (Male)

	➢	This is another hot topic that most people find concerning. Donald Trump didn't so much as call for a ban as he did wanting to put a stall on things until the government could put together a better screening process. I don't see anything wrong with this, but a ton of people do. I definitely think there should be a better screening process all around. (Female)

	➢	To allow them to come in could be a matter of national security. Why? ISIS could infiltrate the Us even more and he is trying to stop this. (Female)

	➢	This statement concerns me again because of singling out a people based on religion to exclude. This could just as easily be turned on Christians. But I don't think there's any justification to blame Trump for not wanting America to help these refuges. Our country isn't capable of solving all of the world's problems. What should happen is churches and private citizens should support international organizations that can help these people. Trump should call on people to do that instead of focusing on banning a group of religious people. I would still side with Trump for at least wanting to get immigration under control in some form. (Female)

	➢	This one goes along with the first and most important one that I previously picked. How can you turn someone away from following their beliefs? All Muslim's are not the same, neither is all immigrants, white people, or black people. People have lost sight of that because yes we do have some bad people out there, but every race has bad people just like they have good people who need our help. That is what America is, a place for everyone. (Female)

3rd Choice

	➢	Donegal Trump has not attacked Muslim refugees.  He has spoken about the ability to properly vet those who are legitimately fleeing persecution and those who are looking to mix in with the refugee population to gain access to the United States.  It is because of this that he wants to put a temporary moratorium on immigration from some until a process can be established to ensure that those in need are given the help they seek, while at the same time denying those who seek asylum for the purpose of gaining access to the US. (Male)

	➢	I have two reasons Trump's perspective on this bothers me. First, what better way to evangelize to Islamic people than if they are coming right to our backyard! Secondly, I believe this is seriously overstepping the bounds of the government, and creates a slippery slope for Trump and the presidents to follow if they decide they don't like a different group. This is a dangerous stance for anyone in power to take. (Male)

Evangelical Women 

1st Choice

	➢	I am for religious freedom. I have friends of different faiths but we don't have to be stupid about it. I don't know everything they believe but I know a lot of them want to kill us. Helping them to do that is not what God would want. I don't believe they all want to kill, but a large amount obviously does.

	➢	"My faith is strongly focused on serving those in need and I strive to do this in love. Even if I disagree with the theology of other religions, I don't think it's ok to persecute them. I would say: ""So, we should just abandon the foundational beliefs of our country? Our country was settled by people that were considered to be religious radicals, people who were persecuted for their faith. If we decide to discriminate the way Trump wants to, we are betraying the very values that truly make our country great."""

	➢	I believe Trump has good reason to suggest restricting Muslim refugees from entering the country for our national security. If not an all-out ban, then at least thorough background checks and evaluations.  It is a privilege for anyone to be admitted to US when this is not their country of origin, not a right.

	➢	"I really REALLY hope I get to do a bunch of Hillary ignorant features to equal this out. Just sayin. I would tell my friend to avoid cutting off his nose to spite his face and vote for Trump to avoid the Queen of Lies (Clinton). None of the above statements matters. I selected one to appease your rules. Regarding the one I selected - Yes, keep the Muslims out. We can love them better by providing them with a new place to live in THEIR OWN REGION OF THE WORLD. We're a rich nation, right? Build them some houses! Teach the people to fish instead of feeding them.  I don't like Trump. But I despise being lied to, ahem, by the Queen of Liars."

2nd Choice

	➢	This statement ties into the previous statement about American values. America is a melting pot, a safe haven for those seeking religious freedom (and other freedoms, of course). If we deny them entry into this country, we are not treating others as Christ has commanded us. It's as simple as that.

Donald Trump attacks the least among us, such as undocumented immigrants who struggle to make a living and raise their families. Trump attacks them for political gain, threatening to deport them and tear apart Christian families where some young children are citizens but their parents are not. 

Catholic Women

1st Choice

	➢	Trump's attacks on the weakest among us show that he is only interested in his own gain. All I us are Americans. Our President needs to defend us all. Trump's attacks on family's are the worst things he could do.

2nd Choice

	➢	There are 11 million undocumented immigrants in the US today, many of who have raised families here.  If those immigrants are productive citizens and have no criminal record, I don’t see any problem with them staying in America.  However, they need to be taking steps to provide for themselves and their family.  No one should come to our country without a plan of how they are going to survive.  There should not be an expectation that we will provide all of their needs.  There should be programs to help them get established and we should give them a period of time to accomplish this.  

	➢	While I understand we do have an immigration problem, splitting up families is no way to fix it. The logistics alone make his plan nearly impossible. Not to mention we were founded as a country to house people looking for a better life. Why should we deny that to so many people who have struggled to get here? Since these people are already here, why not create a path to citizenship for them, so that they can become full members of society who will be able to pay taxes.

Millennial Evangelicals 

2nd Choice

	➢	Attacking the weak when we as a religion are supposed to be helping, supporting and be accepting of all individuals not creating more hate. (Male)

	➢	Mexicans and other immigrants are not ruining our economy. Fat and lazy Americans that need to go to the hospital and/or pop 5 pills a day are. The best workers are Koreans, Mexicans, Chinese, Africans etc. I have friends from all of these backgrounds and I value them tremendously. It is not necessarily the fat Americans faults because the food system is corrupt and formed on greed rather than the needs of the people. Trump should realize that corn and wheat are not what we should be subsidizing. (Male)

3rd Choice

	➢	"Donald Trump has consistently attacked the least among us including immigrants and refugees. This is fundamentally evil. I would affirm my friend for this statement. We do not need a President who attacks those who need us most. Our job is to show them mercy and love." (Male)

	➢	The topic of illegal immigrants also gets Trump in trouble a lot. I hate the idea of ripping established families apart, but these people are here ILLEGALLY. It's not fair to the others who are taking the proper steps to get into the country. I don't think they should be deported immediately. I think they need to be given an opportunity to become a citizen. I would only be able to partially defend him in this matter. (Female)

	➢	I think that people need to stop entering this country illegally, and go through the proper channels to gain citizenship. I disagree with Trump's idea of deporting all illegals and building a wall. It just seems childish. I feel a decent approach would be to make citizenship available to illegals without fear of immediate deportation. Also, look into the reasons why so many people find it necessary to enter this country illegally. (Female)

Evangelical Women 

1st Choice

	➢	It is sad that families who are Christians would be deported but unfortunately, they have been breaking the law while they were here.  God expects us to abide by the laws that He has set in place through governments to govern us.  Undocumented workers came here illegally and broke the law.  If they were Christians before they came, they were in disobedience to God and this is sin.  And, sometimes we face horrible consequences as believers because of our sin.  If they became Christians after illegally entering our country, they would need to self-report and begin steps to be here legally.  I would welcome back any illegal immigrant that went through the proper channels to come back legally if they demonstrated their intentions were honest and upstanding.

2nd Choice

	➢	"Again, becoming an American citizen is a privilege, not a right. If foreigners want to live and work here, they need to come here LEGALLY. If any of us were to decide to go to another country, we would have to apply and get permissions etc. so I think it's reasonable to expect this of immigrants here."

3rd Choice

	➢	Donald Trump is right to want to evict illegal refugees. Why not take into account people like me who had to go through hell and back to marry a person of another race from another country to get him in. That's the way it SHOULD BE. Why should bad behavior be rewarded? Oh, because you must be a liberal communist democrat.

Donald Trump does not live up to American values. This country was founded on the principle of being a beacon of hope to those seeking a better life, but he attacks refugees and immigrants. Many of the original American settlers were fleeing religious persecution, yet he supports stopping religious people from entering the country because of their faith. 

Catholic Women

1st Choice

	➢	"This statement encompasses the thoughts behind most of the other options.  Our country was established by immigrants.  Aside from Native Americans virtually everyone who came to the United States were from other countries.  They were looking for religious freedom and an opportunity to begin a better life.  Many had been persecuted for their religious beliefs and were not willing to abandon those principles so starting a new life in a new land was an attractive option.  Trump’s unmerciful stance on refugee and immigrants goes against every aspect of the principles our country was founded upon.  I don’t believe we should just open the floodgate for immigrants and refugees to come to America without proper documentation and screening.  However, to say they can’t flee a war torn country to look for a better life because of religion is wrong.  Again, there must be proper documentation and screening because we live in a different world than we did when our country was established.

	➢	"Unable to mark the statements, only one statement can be marked. Thus, I will copy the statement and then add my comments. 1)Donald Trump wants to be President, but doesn’t show respect for women. He has routinely criticized women for their appearances and weight, and made crude sexual comments. We need a President who respects others, doesn’t treat them with disrespect. Donald Trump's actions, regarding lack of respect for others is a big concern for me. How can a leader of free world behave like this? I used to think he was kidding, but more and more he shows that he does not respect anyone. This is the most critical statement in my opinion. Donald Trump does not live up to American values, let alone Christian values. He does not support religious freedom, which was a founding ideal of America."

	➢	"I agree; Trump has made it a point to tear down people for his own personal gain. He continues to attack innocent people that have nowhere else to turn. What kind of nation would we be if we turned our back on those who need help the most?  I chose this statement because this is exactly how I feel about Trump."

3rd Choice

	➢	America is a place for all people. If we change that we lose America. Trump seems not to understand that our diversity is what makes America great. True that he does not display personality traits or behavior which is consistent related to the expression of American values.

	➢	"3)Donald Trump does not live up to American values. This country was founded on the principle of being a beacon of hope to those seeking a better life, but he attacks refugees and immigrants. Many of the original American settlers were fleeing religious persecution, yet he supports stopping religious people from entering the country because of their faith. This is the most critical statement in my opinion. Donald Trump does not live up to American values, let alone Christian values. He does not support religious freedom, which was a founding ideal of America."

	➢	True that he does not display personality traits or behavior which is consistent related to the expression of American values.

Millennial Evangelicals 

1st Choice

	➢	The attitude a behavior of trump goes against everything we are as a country the constant hate he spreads needs you be shut down before this hate filled closed minded xenophobic bigot destroys this country all 9f his actions a statements are concerning and every time he opens his mouth i wish he would just shut it we do not want our country or religion represented by this type of person this will create a rift not just among our country but against our allies as well (Male)

	➢	Donald Trump seeks to stop illegal immigration and to prevent attacks from occurring in the United States based on a religious context.  He has said nothing about immigration generally, or legal immigration practices, and has said nothing about those who either practice non-violent religion or are fleeing religious persecution. (Male)

	➢	This statement concerns me the most because I am fearful of banning anyone based on religious reasons. That is so close to persecution, and that can be turned on Christians too. On the other hand, I will still be very very tempted to go with Trump since I absolutely will not vote for Hillary, and I do want SOME sort of controls on the border. (Female) 

	➢	This statement is of the most concerning to me because it shows a lack of empathy for anyone who does not already have a high status. People are looking to come to America to get a better chance at life for their children. Trump, as a nominee for future president, should be encouraging this. (Female)

	➢	I chose this one as the most important because that was what America was founded on, the land of the free. Some of the states were founded by people coming over from other countries because they were being persecuted for their religion. Even though I am a woman and do believe that we should not be sexualized and degraded by Trump, this one is bigger than that, this one is about what America is! (Female)

2nd Choice

	➢	"I chose this statement, because our nation was founded on the principle of opportunity, among a few others. I strongly agree with this statement as well. It hurts me that an individual can be so hateful toward one religious group in particular." (Male)

	➢	I believe that Donald Trump really fits the statement well. If my friend said this, I would affirm that I think this is indeed the truth about who he is. We must not lose our values because of fear of the "other!". (Male)

	➢	I chose this one for the same reason I chose the first one. Religious freedoms are extremely important to me. I would tell my friend that his statements about this are concerning, but that I do not believe that he will actually accomplish this. (Male)

	➢	I do not think that Trump represents America's historical values, and this encompasses the disagreements I have with him regarding his policies on refugees and immigrants. I think these two points could also cause potential problems for foreign relations. In speaking to the friend who said this, I would add that I don't believe that it is Christ like for us to treat the misfortunate as Trump does. (Male)

3rd Choice

	➢	This nation was emigrated to by foreigners, and they stole it from the native populace. By preventing another century of immigrants, we're being hypocritical. (Male)

	➢	This concerns me because once you start persecuting one religion, how hard is it to persecute another one? I don't want my religious freedom to be hindered but if it is so be it. It wasn't easy for Jesus Christ and the early church either. (Male)

Evangelical Women 

1st Choice

	➢	I do not believe his viewpoints on immigrants. It's lacking in compassion which is one of the key foundations of being a Christian. I also think it paints immigrants and refugees as people who are trying to take advantage of all America has to offer without taking into consideration the value of them as contributing members of society and as people themselves escaping dire living conditions.

2nd Choice

	➢	"I hate that this country is being led to fear outsiders and that some people want nothing to do with hurting and abused people. All these people want to do is be safe and work hard, just like the rest of us. They should not be penalized for that. I want us to continue to allow people to come here and feel accepted. I really feel that Trump is using people's fear to gain votes and that is not right."

	➢	I understand why this concerns you but our current President also does not always support Christian people who are fleeing their country and what to live in our country to have religious freedom.  The Rome like family came here legally from Germany because it is against the law to homeschool your children in Germany.  They could not accept the secular education their children would be exposed to in Germany.  The Obama administration fought to have them deported where if the Romeikes did not send their children to public school, then they would have been removed from their Christian biological parents' home.  I understand why you think we should open our country to refugees and I especially agree with you that we should accept Christian refugees fleeing prosecution.  Trump is not against this.  He is in support of slowing down the acceptance of refugees from areas of known Islamic terrorists who are not Christians until we have in place a better means to vet them before we allow them in.  This is to protect America and our way of life.   

	➢	I chose this one, because from the sounds of it the refugees and immigrants he is stopping are not Christian but are Muslim. Muslim is a religion but it is not Christian. American was founded on the Christian faith. There is a difference.

3rd Choice

	➢	He speaks out against Muslims coming into US because of the terrorist attacks we keep experiencing are at the hands of Islamic extremists. I agree on this issue.


Also, tell us what you would say in response to your friend about any of the statements that do not concern you. 

Catholic Women

	➢	"Donald Trump attacks the least among us, such as undocumented immigrants who struggle to make a living and raise their families. Trump attacks them for political gain, threatening to deport them and tear apart Christian families where some young children are citizens but their parents are not."
	➢	I would say that I don't like that Trump attacks them and immigrant should be able to come to the United States, but I do think immigrants should be documented and should be willing to do what is necessary to become legal residents.

	➢	I don't really care as much about many marriages Trump has had or whether or not he ended one because he was having an affair.  I care more about how he is going to run our country.  he wouldn't be the first president to have personal life issues and affairs.

	➢	Trump does comment on immigrants. even though they are harsh. there is some truth in them.  People who come to the country should do it legally and not illegally

	➢	Donald Trump does not have Christian values as he claims. He lashes out in anger, calls people names and is not a good role model for our country or our children. He does not respect woman, and has made very crude remarks in public, that have been sexual in nature, as well as criticizing women for their appearance and weight. He also has mocked disabled people and insulted them. He seems to not respect Muslim refugees and wants to ban them from entering the United States. He also wants to deport undocumented immigrants, who have young children that are citizens. Donald Trump is pretty much against whatever America stands for.

	➢	I’m not concerned the immigrants. We live in a world of diverse backgrounds. I don’t think that impacts my decision on voting for him or not

	➢	All of these statements concern me.

	➢	All the statements about immigrants and refugees don't bother me at all because I understand what he's trying to say in his messages. I receive those statements and concerns in a positive manner. I see Trump as a man trying to protect his country first before being able to outreach his support and concerns to other countries. I think he's absolutely correct in his statements that we need to protect our own citizens including our Mexican Syrian citizens because they are the ones with the rights to be here not the undocumented. I'm married to a Mexican man and his entire Mexican family have the same beliefs. Their families came here legally and learned the language from TV shows and schooling that why shouldn't other people. Which is what Trump is trying to get across. If we all went about coming in to this country the legal and right way, there is no issue. We are simply trying to protect our citizens before we can outreach a hand to other countries. There are plenty of private funded organizations that work towards protecting and helping citizens and other impoverished people, I just don't believe our government should be involved in helping them first before our citizens because our country needs a lot of help itself before we can go around helping others with them assuming we are doing fine on the inside. Especially since our education system in particular is so destructive.

	➢	The least concerning statement to me is about him getting remarried after an affair during his first marriage. I am already aware that he is not a Christian nor a good man. However, many men have messed up at some point in their lives. While this is not ok, it is not a main concern of mine when it comes to his ability to run a country. Quite frankly many politicians seem to philander.

	➢	Donald Trump says he is a Christian, but he has not behaved that way in his personal life. He is on his third marriage and ended his first marriage because he was having an affair with his second wife. The only statement that I feel like doesn’t concern me is the one about his personal life.  It’s really none of my business that he’s been married three times or that he cheated on his wife.  Is it reprehensible?  Yes, but it isn’t a factor in whether I would vote for him or not.  No.

	➢	A President should be looked up to so our children can have a strong moral person they can look up to and maybe model their lives after but Mr. Trump is not a good role model let a good person for our children to listen to with his foul language. Our children should be shown that America is a melting pot of other cultures that have the freedom to live according to their faiths and culture not having a wall to keep people out. A President has to have a very strong morals and family values to be a role model.

	➢	All of the statements are great reasons why Trump should never be in a position of power in our country.

	➢	Although I would never be deported or forcefully separated from my family I can’t even begin to imagine what sort of emotional pain that would cause. Separating mothers from their children because they are illegal immigrants is terrible. They came here seeking a better life for their families and he wants to take that away? My heart hurts at the very thought

	➢	Trump appears more insulting than encouraging of hope/ general and growth for the economy.

	➢	I am not proud of the other items in the list. There are many people that have broken their marriage vows so I will not be a judge of his private life.  In fact, I believe that divorced couples should be welcomed back into the church without having to go through an expensive annulment that is required only for money making purposes. Although I feel compassion and sympathy for immigrants and refugees, I think there should be quantitative limits on both. Illegal immigrants impact our economy/crime/employment/health benefits, etc. negatively in a number of ways. At times I wonder why some of our citizens are in such hopeless and dire circumstances as compared to the immigrant population.  As for refugees, it should be a requirement and responsibility for other nations to also share the burden of taking in refugees too.  Other countries need to step up and allow refugees to enter their country for sanctuary too.  I think that Trump has valid concerns over the safety and security of our country.  Yes, we should help those in need but we also need to protect the rights and safety of our own citizens first before allowing others to enter our country when we are not sure of their intent, terrorist associations or origin.  I think the way that Trump has handled these situations has not always been in the most appropriate manner; however, he has tapped into an area that is of much concern to many people.

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	All of these statements concern me with regards to the state of our country this type of hate will destroy this country (Male)

	➢	I would like to understand the context about how Trump doesn't have respect for women.  While he has spoken, in poor taste I might add, about Hillary Clinton's appearance, this does not generally apply to all women.  he has numerous female executives in his various companies and seems to be willing to promote and give authority to those who are the most qualified, not based on gender or race, but ability. Hi mocking of the disabled reporter spoke poorly to his character.  This is unacceptable in any case, but especially from those seeking public office. (Male)

	➢	The reason I didn't have any real "fighting-back" response in the previous three slides, and the reason I won't here, is because I am not a Trump defender. I like his tax policy and the fact he isn't Hillary Clinton. Otherwise, I am more than happy to bash his policies with anyone else who doesn't like him. (Male)

	➢	With regard to the mocking of a reporter with special needs, shame on you. This is a position of power, hierarchy type of situation. We should be assisting those that need it, not suppressing and pushing them down. (Male)

	➢	All of these statements are concerning to me because they are true about Donald Trump. I believe each of these statements reflects the reality of this person's character and his Presidential campaign. (Male)

	➢	Trump's marriage has absolutely nothing to do with his ability to run a campaign. There is so much that goes on behind the scenes of his marriage. Should have he had an affair? No, but that has nothing to do with his dealings in politics. (Female)

	➢	When it says that Trump attack immigrants that are undocumented, that is not true. I mean he is going by the law if you think about it. I mean, yes, he wants to deport, but they should have gotten themselves documented when they got to the Us so that they were not breaking the law. (Female)

	➢	Frankly, all these issues concern me. They all seem to boil down to one characteristic that Trump possesses: he has no compassion. He has an iron fist, a crappy attitude, and disregards anyone who doesn't live up to his expectation of what an ideal human should look like. An upper class privileged white male. (Female)

	➢	The statement about the "undocumented immigrants" does not concern me because they are illegal aliens. If those same people came here on a visa, then I would have no problem with it. But they are not. They broke the law coming here and there should be some sort of consequence. (Male)

	➢	In response to all, Donald Trump is merely posturing for the cameras, so as to appear to be taking a tough stance. (Male)

	➢	Donald Trump says he is a Christian, but he has not behaved that way in his personal life. He is on his third marriage and ended his first marriage because he was having an affair with his second wife. I don't like this statement, primarily because of bringing Christianity into it, but it doesn't concern me. I don't care how many marriages the man has had. I would not like it if he had an affair in office, but everyone in DC has had affairs. We don't have much of a selection of good candidates these days. (Female)

	➢	All of these concern me. I think that his negative comments regarding women and the disabled are closely related to his comments on immigrants, refugees, and political opponents. It shows that he has little respect for those he dislikes. (Male)

	➢	Concerning disabled individuals, refugees, Muslims, and immigrants, Trump is not showing generosity or kindness. How can we trust him to choose wisely and with discretion for this country when he has such an intolerance to the less than perfect person? (Female)

	➢	All of these are of concern to me because they are not presidential. Donald Trump will be a foolish president but unfortunately he will probably be better than Hillary. Donald Trump is not a role model and is actually quite immature as is evidenced by his words and behavior. (Male)

	➢	I honestly believe that every single one of the same as listed is important. I would tell this person that I absolutely agree with everything they're saying and I don't think Trump should ever be elected as president. (Female)

	➢	"Donald Trump says he is a Christian, but he has not behaved that way in his personal life. He is on his third marriage and ended his first marriage because he was having an affair with his second wife." This statement does concern me, because yes he uses women like their toys and when the new one comes out he trades the old one in. The fact of divorce on the other hand has become so common in the United States that it is seemed at normal. Now I am not condoning divorce, but I do understand the reasoning behind it. Trump on the other hand has no reasoning behind his actions, only the fact that he liked the new shiny Barbie. Though his marriage record and his personal life, has no place in the campaign for his presidency. " (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	I’d say the Muslim one.  But i don’t feel as string as him. And mine isn’t hate.  I’m not coming from a bad place.

	➢	Actually, they all concern me. He is far from someone I would normally vote for. He is just the lesser of two evils as far as I'm concerned. I backed Ted Cruz.

	➢	He attacks all Muslims. Not all are bad a few bad apples don't make all bad.

	➢	I'm going to comment on the comments he makes about women. I believe Trump is a feminist. I don't think he has any problem with women. I think he loves women. I also think that his wife and his daughter will help him to shape policies that will be beneficial and effective for women. As for the name calling comma again I find it refreshing to hear someone who does not Candor, and who is not scripted. Well some of his comments May offend others, I feel that they are refreshing and truthful nature outweighs the negative aspect. As for the immigrants. Well. I don't have the answers to that. I don't know what should be done with all these immigrants. All I know is that my middle-class existence has disappeared and I'm very concerned about that. I need to take care of my family here, and worry about them, not a bunch of immigrants who are not even my religion. I don't understand why we are expected to fix everybody's problems. Can we just fix America's problems first and then deal with letting all kinds of people in?  The bottom line is that this does not affect me directly and therefore I don't care.

	➢	All of these are upsetting to me on the level of them not being Christ-like behaviors and attitudes. We should strive to be kind and loving and willing to help neighbors. We should treat others with respect and not call others names. We shouldn't separate families or tell people they aren't allowed to come here. None of this is what Jesus would do.

	➢	Regarding the comments about the disabled reporter: "It's not ok to make fun of people because of their physical or mental disabilities, any more than it is to make fun of someone for their eye or hair color.

	➢	His affairs and marriages have no personal effect on me.  Yes, it is sinful, and speaks to where he stands as a Christian, but it's not my place to judge.  Some day he will have to stand before God and atone for his actions.  That's enough for me.

	➢	Trump clearly has his frailties as any other person in the public eye, his marriage record, his inability to censor himself at times and say things that are not so politically correct with regards to women or the disabled press person, but honestly, sometimes he just says what everyone else is thinking but not willing to say out loud. Basically, I feel like Trump is pretty transparent and what we see is what we get. I kind of like that. Whereas Hillary, has a different persona. I see Hillary as a politician who has made secret deals behind closed doors, she will say and do whatever she has to get elected. I expect that there were payoffs in the past, cover ups when people mysteriously died or (killed themselves or had accidents) and payoffs and cover ups regarding her failure to use proper protocols regarding classified emails and then there was her blatant lying about events she supposedly experienced while in the Middle East when she was not a party to those events. She's just slimy.
	➢	Trump on the other hand, has a bad haircut and says things without thinking, but I feel he's being honest when he says he want to make America great again.

	➢	Donald Trump has demonstrated a history of hiring, promoting, and paying women well.  This shows respect for women.  I do not like how he comments about lots of people and /or insults them but this has been a tactic by the liberal media to influence voters.

	➢	Donald Trump has attacked Muslim refugees, calling for a ban on them entering the United States. These refugees are fleeing persecution, and Christ taught us to help those in need.  We need to help but not at the risk of our safety.

	➢	1 - Hillary has a mouth worse than a sailor, they just hide it for her. 2 - Women interviewed who worked for Trump all say wonderful things about him. 3 - Mocking a disabled person? Really? You are grasping at straws. I am the mother of a 36-year-old disabled person and I am not offended. 4 - Donald Trump does not live up to American values? Is his long-time-personal aide the offspring of renowned Muslim Brotherhood people (weiners wife)? That's just a starting statement. Don't want to waste too much effort cuz you are a brick wall anyway.

	➢	I have talked to many people (most are going to vote for Donald Trump as I am) and we all agree, he just needs to simmer down a bit and stop saying what he is thinking. Some of his remarks are very out spoken but he has never hid anything. He tells it like it is.

	➢	I would have to say the statement that least concerns me is the statement that refer to " trump does not live up to ordinal American values..." In think the pint stresses in throw statement is an over reach and the countryman also founded on the principal of fee market American Dream capitalism and he has embodied that over his lifetime. I don’t believe he is persecuting people exclusivity because of their religious beliefs with regards to entering the united states ... He does however have other immigration bias

	➢	The statement about the disabled reporter is probably the least concerning, although they all concern me to a point. We do need to treat the disabled with respect and dignity but I feel there are a lot more people in this country claiming disabled that find some little thing to claim disability and they take advantage of the system. This is not to put down those who are truly disabled, but often the disabled do more to support themselves in society than many who claim disability.

	➢	I'm less concerned by Trumps comments about Muslims, since I think this is an issue that needs to be addressed.  However, I think Clinton won't be happy until we're all speaking Arabic and following Sharia law

	➢	Donald Trump mocking a reporter probably wouldn't shock anyone. He is not a kind or compassionate man. He would not be a champion for any minority. His behavior says much about him, none of it leading me to want him leading our country.

	➢	All of these statements re wrong.  I couldn't turn a blind eye to any of them.  They are all horrific!!!!!!!!!!


Activity 10: Faith in Public Life Video – CATHOLIC VIDEO
Now it is time for a video. Please view it and respond to following questions.  

Catholic Women

How did you feel about the video?   

	➢	The video shows that the pope and Donald Trump at are opposite ends of the pole. Trump is all about power and wealth and the pope is caring, giving, and kind.

	➢	It made me feel sad about how small minded Trump is. I love our Pope and he is an example of greatness to all around the world.

	➢	I liked how it compared how things should be to how Trump feels about things. It shows that he isn't a very moral person

	➢	Wow!! That was a very powerful message, that brought tears to my eyes. The Pope whom I dearly respect, spoke the truth about Trump.

	➢	I feel it says things I have already heard. I listen to the Pope's speeches whenever possible. I have great respect for Him. He makes a lot of sense and I value what he has to say. This video shows a very big difference between what the Pope says and what Trump says. It is like two opposites. I think this video is enlightening to who Trump really is.

	➢	Wow. I love the Pope. He is such a powerful influence. And i thought trump looked like a thoughtless idiot compared to the pope

	➢	Thank goodness I received my undergrad degree in Media and Film because this biased, chopped up video is exactly what Trump talks about when he says how corrupt the media is. It only made me upset because it's such a one-sided blind scare tactic to get the uneducated and uninformed upset over Trump.

	➢	It was a good succinct video further showing that Trump is not a Christian.

	➢	It was quite interesting.

	➢	I think the video did a good job to compare the views of Pope Francis and the Catholic Church and Trump side by side.

	➢	I've heard all of the references highlighted in the video and while I agree with Pope Francis I believe the non-Catholic world will not view it well.  I can already hear the references of the Pope trying to sway our election.  The other thing that would concern me is that candidates other than Trump would use these clips to their benefit.  I hold our Pope in high esteem and would hate to see that happen.

	➢	Comparing the Pope and Trump I felt was wrong as one is pure and the other is pure evil and the 2 should not be in the same video together.

	➢	I was offended at times by this video.  I think that the Pope is hypocritical!  I think that by condemning someone publicly without meeting with them in private is wrong. Some of which the Pope states is true but I don't agree with his approach.

	➢	It seems very contrived to make Trump seem even worse than he is. [Hi, what made you believe the video made Trump seem even worse than he is?] Dying get me wrong, I feel that Trump is terrible. But this video specifically took quotes of his and pitted then against the Pope. You could do this just as successfully with any candidate or any person. Context and making are needed to understand what was being said and why.

	➢	Neutral. Overall.

	➢	I thought it depicted each person very well. It truly showed that Trump is not a man of Christian faith as he claims. He is very one sided.

How did you feel about the Pope’s comments in the video?  What did he say that you found important or valuable?   

	➢	I think the pope is the kind of person the world needs more of, but unfortunately there are more people like Trump. The pope wants to break down walls that separate people and Trump wants to build walls to keep them out.

	➢	I thought the Pope's comments were how we should all live our lives.  I believe we should all be forgiving.  We should all build bridges and not walls.

	➢	I definitely agree with what he said about greed.  It can be hurtful to people and their relationships. when all you think about is money then you are not concentrating on the things that are important

	➢	The greatest take away from this video, was how the Pope referred to money as being a problem and not a solution. Trump feels the opposite. It's clear that Trump worships money, and is led by money. A person who values money as much as Trump does cannot lead a nation.

	➢	The Pope always speaks so eloquently and makes perfect sense. I thought it was really important when the Pope said to build bridges. Even though I do think we need tougher immigration, we must not turn our backs on the good people who just want to have a life here and work in America.

	➢	The Pope was so true. I thought the whole video of the pope was valuable. Very true

	➢	The Pope's comments were also edited tremendously. Of course the Pope speaks on compassion and forgiveness. We are taught to love the sinner but hate the sin. He should never have made comments on Trump's statement about building a wall because it has nothing to do with blocking out potential new citizens and everything on protecting the ones we have. It's about keeping illegals from taking advantage of opportunities from our citizens and having access to a country's benefits without the individual having to make the sacrifice of leaving their country to claim the US as their own. While there are thousands of people from countries not bordering the US who are on a waiting list to become a US citizen and here are Mexicans and other nationalities jumping or borders taking the spots of those hard earned immigrants who have an ocean and fees blocking their way.

	➢	I like that he said forgive as we have forgiven, it's a condition. We are called to forgive to be Christians.

	➢	I do believe the Pope believes in humility, equality and justice, as long as you are a man.  As far as wealth, the church loves to hold onto their money and doesn't seem to share with the poor as much as it should. He was right about not building a wall.  Trump says he doesn't make mistakes but the Pope also says he doesn't.  We were always taught that he is infallible.  I don't believe any man or woman is.  We all make mistakes.

	➢	The Pope's comments clearly reflect the teachings of the Catholic Church and it makes me feel good that he is willing to share those teachings. I think how he said his comments really seemed to speak to me. He carries himself and speaks in such a gentle manner. [Hi Sarah, what makes you believe the Pope would not be willing to share these teachings? Why did it make you feel good?] Yes, he shares the teachings of the Catholic Church and I believe he will continue to do so. Pope Francis is more open and visible/accessible and we hear more from him than we did from Pope Benedict. The way Pope Francis speaks in such a gentle manner seems very soothing to me.

	➢	He makes valid points in the video. People of all faiths and even no faith relate to him and what he says.  The most important thing he says is that we should be building bridges not walls.  In my mind those bridges should include a process for immigrants to come into the US but by legal means.

	➢	Everything the Pope says is important and valuable. I thought that the most valuable thing he said to me was about not building walls but bridges as this shows true compassion.

	➢	I think that that Pope speaks the truth yet The Vatican has a wall built around it. When the Pope visited Philadelphia where I reside, a huge fence and walled structure was erected to keep the area secure. There were so many people that missed the Mass on the Parkway because they were held up in security lines because they couldn't get past the guarded fences. The wealth of the Vatican is so large that third world countries could be continuously fed if the grandeur and splendor of wealth would be sold and turned into revenue to fund poor villages with food.

	➢	The Pope's words are always of peace. They are beautiful and encourage tolerance of others and of ourselves.

	➢	In general, he made valid points.

	➢	Pope Francis is warm and understanding. He wants people to be fair and just. I particularly liked when he said people who build walls instead of bridges is not a Christian.

Did the video lead you to feel warmer or cooler toward Donald Trump?  Please tell us in what ways?    

	➢	I never liked Trump. He is a greedy, selfish bully. The more he talks and makes his speeches the more obvious that becomes.

	➢	It made me feel the same way I have felt about Trump...not very warm.  To hear Trump, say, you must be wealthy to be great... I do not believe that.  Mother Teresa was not wealthy and she was beyond great, she was amazing!!

	➢	I wasn't a fan of Trump before so my feeling really hasn’t changed. I still do not like him and what he stands for

	➢	Much cooler toward Trump. The Pope, who is a leader of all those with Christian faith, exposed Trump and his lack of Christian values.

	➢	If anything, a little cooler. It just reiterates how Trump is a bully. He said to be great, you must have money, I hate to say it.... that is ridiculous and shows his low mentality.

	➢	Definitely cooler. Trump comes off totally bad. And wrong. Seriously u have to be rich to be great. That was a ridiculous statement

	➢	It led me warmer to Trump just because of how overly edited it was on both Trump and the Pope's statements. This was definitely a gorilla style ad to scare the weak and I hope with how much the media is flooded with scare tactics that people will look further online for the full statements and truth.

	➢	About the same, I had already seen many of the pope's comments about Trump and already agreed with him.

	➢	Much cooler.  I never saw that speech where he says you have to be wealthy in order to be great.  That is really scary for someone to think like that.  If he becomes President I feel sorry for all us middle class and poor people.  Next he will build a wall around us.  It is pretty evident when he mentions the wall he is referring to Mexicans; He always picks on the people least able to defend themselves.

	➢	The video makes me feel cooler toward Donald Trump. His views depicted in the video are the opposite of those of Pope Francis. As a Catholic, I find it difficult to support someone with Trump's views.

	➢	Neither, my feelings about Trump as a candidate still remain the same.  He is a poor choice for the Republican party which unfortunately will give us Hillary, which is equally a poor choice.

	➢	Colder if that is possible towards Trump with his statement about having to be wealthy to be great. Trump is such a snob as he just degraded all the teachers, poets, labors and every American with a statement like that. What has Trump ever done that is great other then decimate the land with buildings?

	➢	I am disappointed at times in the statements and behavior of Trump.  I do not believe that he should make outrageous statements as those shown in the video regarding mistakes and wealth.  Nevertheless, the video is one sided depicting Trump at his worst.  The Pope is a respected religious leader that needs to examine the issues that I presented and stop shaming a political candidate and stick to religious matters.

	➢	Somewhat cooler. I've seen all of these clips before but it's always horrible seeing them again.

	➢	Made me feel on an emotional level that he was very rigid, and impressed upon the fact that if you did not have money you were a loser of sorts.

	➢	It leads me to feel cooler towards Trump. He comes of selfish and cocky, unmoral, rude.


Was there anything confusing about the video?  

	➢	No, the video was pretty straightforward.

	➢	Nothing confusing at all.

	➢	nothing

	➢	Nothing that I saw was confusing, it was very moving to me.

	➢	No, the video was not confusing. I listened a couple of times to make sure I heard everything.

	➢	No i did not feel confused in any way

	➢	Just the fact that it was so biased and one-sided.

	➢	It was clear.

	➢	No, but I think too much emphasis is being made on the Christian angle.  What about all the other religions?

	➢	No, nothing was confusing in the video.

	➢	I guess my only confusion is why is this video necessary.  The media has widely publicized this information so why combine all of these particular clips.  I almost feel like this will be used against the Trump campaign and thus using our beloved Pope as a tool in this election.  I'm not sure I agree with that. [What role/tool do you see the Pope playing in the election? How should he go about changing peoples' opinions?] Hi Nikki - I don't believe he should play a role in the election.  Nor do I believe Joel Osteen or T.D. Jakes should.  When political leaders become actively involved in elections I believe it can divide churches/congregations.  I have family members who are strong Trump supporters as well as some adamant Clinton supporters.  All of them are Catholic.  The non-Trump supporters use what the Pope has said to support their Hillary agenda.  This type of thinking can divide the Church if anyone feels like they must follow the Pope's lead on who to support in an election.    Are you asking how he should go about changing peoples' opinion on a particular candidate?  I don't think he should.  He should just speak the truth and not make comments like "then he is not a Christian".  If he had left that one comments out I would have been okay with everything else.  If you are asking generally how he can change peoples' opinion on civility, mercy, and loving one’s neighbor as themselves, then he should keep promoting civility, acceptance, and love in general.  He should teach them by showing them just as he has been doing.  He is not living an extravagant lifestyle as other Popes have.  He is one of us and is very open to say so.  Actions like this make us embrace him as well as others of different religions.  I have even had acquaintances who are atheist say they like what he has to say.  Maybe by the Pope being humble and accepting it allows those who are not believers to embrace his teaching and ultimately becoming believers.

	➢	Nothing was confusing

	➢	I question why the Pope is being used in political campaign advertisements. I really take offense when a religious leader such as the respected and learned Pope Francis interferes with the political system.  Is there not separation of church and state?  Do we not take religion out of public schools? Are we not allowed to pray in public schools or mention religion without including all other religions?  I feel that if the Pope is trying to sway my opinion he is doing it in the wrong manner. [Hello. I understand you believe the Pope is going about changing your opinion in the wrong manner. What role do you see the Pope playing in the election? How should he go about changing peoples' opinions?] I think that the Pope has a right to speak about change, issues and the Church's values; however, I think that if he is going to speak about it he must also be a proponent of the change.  He should lay out a plan to make that change.  I think in the case of Donald Trump he needs to state that he would like to work with him on devising a way to treat people more fairly.  Perhaps he could suggest some sort of joint initiative from the Trump camp and the Vatican to perform an act of mercy.  Trump ran a fundraiser for Veterans, why not get together with the Pope and have them match $ for $ towards feeding the hungry in the US or holding a benefit for another underprivileged group that needs assistance and deem this as taking care of your neighbor. I think it would wise to have Trump meet with religious leaders and display good character.  We are used to Donald Trump displaying inappropriate behavior, yet in no way do I approve of it. I felt that the Pope displayed inappropriate behavior without follow up on how to turn Donald Trump around.  Trump is a viable force to be reckoned with not dismissed.  If anyone could propose change in a feasible manner it could be the Pope because he is so well liked and respected.  Have him use that charisma and insight to fine tune Donald Trump so that he could be an appropriate solution for failing America?

	➢	No

	➢	See below.

	➢	No

Was there anything missing?    

	➢	I don't feel that there was anything missing.

	➢	I thought the video was short but sweet.  It showed Trump in trump fashion.  Ignorant!

	➢	no

	➢	I think his multiple marriages should be brought up. [Why do you believe Trump's multiple marriages should have been brought up] Well his first marriage collapsed because he was unfaithful with Marla. His first wife and Marla had a very public argument on the slopes of Aspen, when his wife discovered he had brought his Mistress along on a family Christmas vacation.   I just feel that if people knew that he does not hold his family and wedding vows as sacred, that would show what type of person he is.   He has declared bankruptcy as many times as he has been married.

	➢	No

	➢	No i think it was complete. It def shows trump is not a Christian in any way

	➢	Yes! The full statements of both people. And how about the Pope's apology that he shouldn't have made the statement in the first part or Trump's remarks back to the Pope. [The suggestions you made, how would they change the video and your feelings about it?] I feel if the video wasn't chopped up and recorded with the responses it wouldn't have such a one sided message. The video's message would change and display a more realistic approach of both people and not so much of a scare tactic. If both parties could be accurately portrayed, I think it would leave the audience with less tension and confusion from the original video showed. However, in today's society, media outlets thrive off that scare tactic behavior to scare rather then inform the public so I don't ever see how a video or message would be displayed accurately.  

	➢	I think it was well done for its purpose. It's a nice short video displaying Trump as a non-Christian. Nothing else was needed.

	➢	No

	➢	I think it was well done for the time used in this short video.

	➢	If you are looking for a video to bash Trump, then I think it was covered pretty well.

	➢	All the foul language Trump uses

	➢	Yes, there was something missing, objectivity. I did not see the statements that the Pope made later on taking back his statements about Donald Trump.  I believe that Pope reissued a statement after there was outcry from many stating that the Pope needs to stay out of the politics of the United States.  Perhaps he can concentrate on the politics of keeping fraud out of the Vatican banking system. As I have stated before, if the Pope cared about turning Trump around then he should have met with him in a private manner and had an advisory session with him. [How would the reissued statement made by the Pope change your opinion and feelings about the video? Why is this statement important?] I would have seen a different side of the Pope, him admitting that he needed to adjust his statement. I think that this would have made the video seem not as slanted towards one side.  I think that I would not have been so critical of the Pope if this had been displayed. I also would have liked to have seen Trump's responses to both dialogues by the Pope. I think the statement made by the Pope clarifies to the public that there is a bigger picture that needs to be examined. This is sensationalism and there is always more to the story than meets the eye.

	➢	More context to all the statements. [Hi Rebecca. What context do you believe was missing?] It gives 3 second clips of whatever goes against what the Pope was saying. I have no idea what he was saying those things in reference to or even if this was a poorly chosen moment of sarcasm. The video takes what it wants and gives us nothing else. These sorts of things are scary with how Easy it is for them to mislead people into thinking whatever the producer wanted them to even if it's the opposite of true. I happen to believe this particular one does represent Trump accurately but the format bothers me.

	➢	Perhaps factual data to substantiate Trump's claims vs. back and forth between the two....

	➢	No

If you feel as though something was left out that is important, please feel free to use this space to let us know your thoughts.   

	➢	I don't feel that anything was left out.

	➢	The video was a quick glimpse of Trump being his pompous self in comparison to an amazing role model for our world, The Pope.

	➢	I thought the video made its point

	➢	I think people need to be reminded that Trump has declared bankruptcy multiple times. Has been married multiple times. He says that he is a Christian, yet he does not display Christian values in his business or personal life.

	➢	I don’t feel like anything was left out. I seriously think that trump is not acting in any way Christian like
	➢	And i don’t think he cares. He says what he wants and doesn’t seem to be bothered by what anyone thinks

	➢	Everything important was left out and this just saddens me to know America's media is being funded on misinformation and chopped up broadcasting because it's the scare tactics that feed into the insecurities of our citizens. Another perfect example is Orsen Welles radio broadcast of "War of the Worlds" where actual foolish people committed suicide because of the broadcast. I'm thankful to live in a technology based day where social media is the driving force of getting truth spread.

	➢	Nothing was left out.

	➢	No

	➢	I feel the video made the point that the views of Pope Francis and the Catholic Church are completely opposite of those expressed by Donald Trump. I feel that had the video gone on longer with several additional examples, it would have diminished the effectiveness of the video. I like how it made me think about these issues and encourages me to listen more carefully to the candidate’s comments. [. In what way would it have diminished the effectiveness of the video? Do you believe the examples given were the appropriate examples or are there others that would have been better?] I feel that the video was the right length to get the point across, it was the length of an extended commercial so it kept our close attention. If the video had lasted for let's say, 10 minutes, then in my opinion it would have been too long and some people might have pressed the stop button. I think the video gave appropriate examples and I wouldn't change anything.

	➢	The Pope has said many other things that indicate that we should not be judgmental of alternative lifestyles, thus showing love and mercy.  This supports more of a Libertarian platform.

	➢	Nothing was left out.

	➢	I wished that the Pope had stated that he wanted to arrange a meeting with Trump to discuss how the 2 could work together to iron out plans of compromise.  I wish that the Pope who started the conversation had stated that he wanted to work with Trump on building bridges via politics instead of tearing him down. Yes, Trump could have turned around and asked for a meeting too to work on a plan to settle these areas; however, I do not think that a religious leader putting a candidate on the spot is appropriate.

	➢	Nope, just the context.

	➢	Nothing thank you


Activity 10: Faith in Public Life Video (EVENGELICALS)
Now it is time for a video. Please view it and respond to following questions.  

How did you feel about the video?   

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	It makes me feel ashamed that we have let him get this far. I feel angry about the comments he has made toward others not like him. (Female)

	➢	I agree with this video. I want to share it with others on my social media sites. (Female)

	➢	I loved the video there were a lot of great factual evidence showing his lack of repentance and lack of true Christian and moral values. (Male)

	➢	It seems to be very one-sided. Although I am apprehensive of political advertisements of all types, I have a feeling that this video puts a spotlight on cherry-picked sound bites that make it appear as though Trump is without faith. (Male)

	➢	I felt the video was very powerful. The part that was most powerful is that Anderson Cooper asked him if asking for forgiveness was a central tenet for him. Trump responded by saying, "Why repent when I haven't made any mistakes?" This is such a delusional statement; even individuals of a non-spiritual or religious background would agree that we all make mistakes. (Male)

	➢	I felt this video sums up the concerns I have with Donald Trump perfectly. (Male)

	➢	There are valid points made by the pastors, but I had already heard everything that Donald said before. (Female)

	➢	I like it, Russell Moore is one of the few reformed leaders y'all have referenced, and one I have serious respect more. Furthermore, these clips all give a pretty good feel for the struggle evangelicals face. (Male)

	➢	I feel like it was just highlighting the bad, but not showing the good that he is trying to do. I do not think that other Christians should judge him saying that he is not really a Christian, I mean that is for god to say. (Female)

	➢	I agree with it. I especially agree with Max Lucado. (Female)

	➢	I feel as though it is very accurate. I had not heard his statement about not repenting before. That convinces me that he is not actually saved. (Male)

	➢	I hated it. I felt it was very arrogant and self-righteous. I think it's distasteful to attack a man based on identifying him as not a Christian. It takes the faith of a mustard seed. Who knows whether Donald is Christian? I doubt it, but what would seeing a video like that do to Donald Trump except make him more alienated from the faith? It's pure wickedness. (Female)

	➢	I agree with what the video says. As I said in previous discussion, I think there is a bit of a tone of judgement towards Donald Trump, but I agree that if the man is reading scripture one moment and then insulting others the next, that should give Evangelical Christians pause. (Male)

	➢	It was educational, highlighting mistakes that Trump has made. I feel as though it is good at tearing Trump down from a religious perspective, while not necessarily being 100% accurate. (Male)

	➢	I thought that this video was overtly preachy and it stung. well I myself do not care for all of Donald Trump's policies, I found this video and nothing more than your average political smear campaign; mudslinging. As human beings, let alone Christians and other believers, it is not our place to judge Mr. Trump. No one's got a perfect existence, and bigotry isn't a crime, merely bothersome to certain populace. (Male)

	➢	I felt that while the general message was when I agree with, it was poorly executed. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	I like it.  I completely agree

	➢	Sad...this man is so ignorant and it’s a shame. To come and claim to be a Christian and ask for people to ""beat the crap of them"" is just horrible and then say he will pay legal fees just unreal

	➢	Wow...that was a powerful video. Knowing the facts is one thing but seeing him make those statements...painful...so sad.

	➢	I think it brought up some valid points. I think that it is thought provoking.

	➢	Mixed feelings, I feel like I need to go back and see every interview and debate they took a clip from. It would be far too easy to make a snap judgement of the man based on a few selected seconds of video.

	➢	The video was well done and unfortunately true. The audacity of Trump to say he has nothing to repent of is remarkable. Whether someone is a Christian or not, we all sin. We all are responsible for hurting others and for someone to assume they have nothing to be sorry about is appalling.

	➢	I felt it was well, a few remarks and episodes taken out of context in ways that make Trump look like a bad person. I feel he was honestly being himself in every case. Was he politically incorrect? Yes
	➢	Was he speaking in poor taste? Sure Did say something outrageous? To some I'm sure that would be the opinion I think if we had a crew of cameras and videos and were allowed access as a fly on the wall of Hillary’s house or hotel or conference rooms or the backseat of her limos.... I imagine we would see an interesting side of Hillary, but with Trump, what you see is what you get. I've never heard Trump profess to be a born again Christian so I don't think we can hold him to Christian values.

	➢	I felt it was an accurate representation of my concerns regarding trump's spiritual standing and honesty regarding his true feelings.

	➢	Disgusted. It was filled with venom and hate. Shame on those so-called spiritual leaders for injcting so much judgment and vile bitterness into the world.

	➢	I thought it was wonderful thoughtful honest and just right on ... Truth be told I wasn’t expecting something so well put together that really focused on the heart of the matter

	➢	I know Donald Trump has said a lot of negative remarks during interviews but I still don't believe he isn't a Christian. Nobody knows what he does behind the cameras or on a Sunday. He could be private in his beliefs. It still doesn't change my mind.

	➢	I agree with the verse "that all have fallen short of the glory of God" and agree that all need to repent. This video is uncomfortable to watch and makes me wish even more that Ted Cruz could have been the nominee. It is hard to accept that I have to choose between the two candidates that are left because neither make a strong case for Christianity.  But, I also know I cannot sit out the election especially in a swing state and allow Hillary Clinton to become President.

	➢	I was dumbfounded by Trump's claim that he doesn't make mistakes. I don't have the right to judge Mr. Trump spiritually, but I am concerned with his views of sin and repentance.

	➢	My first thought is I don't see how he can claim to be a Christian then state he doesn't need to repent or ask forgiveness if he is not making mistakes. Sin is not the same as mistakes, we all make mistakes and we all sin, but there is a huge difference in the two.

	➢	The video is very accurate in showing his obvious shortcomings.

	➢	I thought it was well done. It gave the facts without speaking in an inflammatory manner. It set the facts out for us to follow as well as clips proving Trumps
	➢	'S words and actions.

	➢	I really like the video and feel the same way as the ministers in the video.

How did you feel about the pastors that were speaking?  What did they say that you found important or valuable? Was there a particular pastor that stood out more than the others?  If so, in what way?    

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	I feel like the pastors that spoke were completely right, and I wish the people of American would listen more to them. The pastor that started out by saying " I wouldn't have said anything if he didn't call himself a Christian." Trump is not acting like a Christian should act, and people think that's okay, but it’s not! (Female)

	➢	I agree with what the pastors that were saying. I especially found what Lucado shared as a valuable, that Trump is inconsistent and does not live a Christian lifestyle. (Female)

	➢	I found the pastors pointing out how he 8s trying to cause the separation and lack of any repentance and boastful attitude very moving and spot on. (Male)

	➢	I feel that the pastors were speaking to the sound bites in the same way they are presented to the public.  Additionally, I would like to have seen more options from other pastors, not just those who may be known for having a certain bias against Trump from the beginning. (Male)

	➢	I felt that they were genuine with their statements. The first gentleman stated that he prays for someone who is lost, and I agree. Even though Trump may not realize it, he is lost. Instead of putting him down like he would others, we need to pray and hope for his healing. The second gentleman was who stood out the most. He really just pinpointed some of the most notable statements Trump has made and spoke out against them. It is Trump calling himself a Christian, that disappoints him the most. (Male)

	➢	I felt proud of the pastors who were speaking. I believe everything they said was important and valuable. I think that Russel Moore's comments stood out the most and it was a fundamental concern for Trumps salvation. I share this concern greatly. (Male)

	➢	The second pastor stood out to me. He said that he wouldn't even be speaking about Trump if he didn't refer to himself as a Christian. I think he had a very valid point there. He's not judging just to judge. He is speaking out about someone who is not living a Christian lifestyle. I have a lot of respect for that pastor. (Female)

	➢	Russell Moore and Max Lucado definitely stuck out more to me because I have had previous experience listening to them. Russell Moore, as I said above, is a reformed Calvinist preacher I have great respect for! (Male)

	➢	I do not think that any of the pastors stood out to me. They were all bashing on a fellow American based on what they have heard in the media. It made me feel bad. (Female)

	➢	I agree with Max Lucado. He said he wouldn't have anything to say about him if he didn't claim he was a Christian, but he did. (Female)

	➢	I completely agreed with each of them. You cannot be a person of Christian faith without admitting that you have made mistakes and repent of them. I did like the pastor that said that he was going to pray that Trump would actually accept the Lord. (Male)

	➢	I didn't like their approach. I hated the way one of the pastors said "his prayer" was that Donald Trump would repent. I'm sure that's everyone's prayer if the man is not a Christian, but it's so self-righteous to say that in an interview. I think they were right to object to the behaviors they did, that much was valuable. But I didn't like the way the first two went about it. It came off arrogant. The third one, the one talking about immigration, wasn't as bad in terms of being arrogant, but I don't agree that we have a moral responsibility toward any other religious group. We have a moral obligation toward them as humans made in the image of God, not because they are part of another faith. (Female)

	➢	I agreed with what the pastors were saying. Max Lucado stood out in particular to me because he is a well-known author in the Christian community. It gives me comfort that several Evangelical leaders and I are in agreement when it comes to Donald Trump, even while many support him. (Female)

	➢	They just kept saying what is blatantly clear to anyone that can understand English. You can get a degree to be a "pastor" by paying a few hundred dollars online. If you speak well in public, you can lead a church. All these pastors just restated what the video already explained and pointed out the obvious. (Female)

	➢	None of the pastors really stood out for me, and the same goes for their messages of Trump needing to ask for repentance for his sins against Bible doctrine. (Female)

	➢	The pastors speaking, I feel, was the most influential part of the video. I particularly appreciated the pastor who spoke about Donald Trump's desire to ban all Muslims from entering the United States. He was genuine and his speech and right on in the saying that Trump was out of line for suggesting that. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	What he was saying about the Mexican judge just shows his ignorance.  And to the woman so hateful.

	➢	They were to the point .... They could of had more versus to identify with

	➢	They all have legitimate claims against him. I agree with most of them. The only one I don't is about Muslims. My stance is based on fear and maybe not right but I just don't believe God would expect us to sit down and allow ourselves to be killed off. [How could the message about Muslim be communicated better? What would you want to hear?] I would want them to be sure that the Muslims coming in we're the ones who believed in the peaceful aspects of the Quran.  

	➢	I found them to be sincere.  I especially found most sincere the pastor who said he would not have said anything if Trump had not identified himself as a Christian. But I do find all of this quite misplaced. This man is the chosen person. There were lots of different Republican people running for office and he beat every one of those people. I'm sorry you don't like him but the people have spoken. This should have this should have all taken place during the primaries. The primaries are over.

	➢	I thought their opinions were important, especially when Max Lucado said that he would have never said anything if Trump hadn't called himself a Christian.  I totally understand.  When someone calls themselves a Christian, then behaves in a way that is confusing to those who aren't, it directly reflects on the rest of us, and we are forced to defend our own faith.

	➢	The pastors handled it well and didn't race to judge Trump. They all want what is best for our nation and for Trump personally. They had responses I want from respected Christians. I liked how Max Lucado said he wouldn't say anything if Trump didn't claim to be a Christian. We aren't called to judge everyone, but we are called to hold fellow Christians accountable.

	➢	I think the pastors were responding to video clips out of context and I may agree with some of what they said, particularly about the need for us to pray for Trump to repent and become a Christian. I feel if they were shown various clips of Hillary saying or doing certain things, she could be made to look equally bad if not more so.

	➢	None of them stands out for me, but they are known to me, and I respect their opinions.

	➢	I felt relieved that I did not attend their churches. I do not want my worship to be cluttered with political rants and leanings and opinionated ignorant people. They all stood out as passing judgment on one candidate and ignoring the evil posed by the other of the two bad candidates.

	➢	They each were able to respectively articulate how his actions are in direct conflict with scripture and Gods will and word

	➢	I respect their opinion but don't' think they know Donald Trump well enough to think he's not a Christian. None of their views change my mind. We do need to screen other's coming into this country better. I was living up in Boston during the bombing of the marathon. Those 2 brothers took advantage of our country with housing, food, schooling and what not and then turned on us. You can be to safe these days. [What makes you believe they do not know Trump well enough? What do you want them to know? How could the message about Muslim be communicated better? What would you want to hear?] they only spoke of the negative things about Donald Trump and not of any of the positive things he has done. I would want them to know about his family life, his children and their accomplishments. the children wouldn't be who they are today if Donald Trump didn't raise them right. if he was so bad they would have turned out bad. he had a good childhood and made sure his children did too. he even has grandchildren that he is helping to grow into responsible adults. the Muslim's have to realize when they come to our country they should abide by our rules, if we go to their country we're not allowed to drink and have to dress like them on top of it all. we shouldn't have to change for them, if they want to come here they need to change.  

	➢	I agree with the first two pastors especially in regards for the need for repentance and the unacceptable ways at times Trump speaks of other people.  While he is making mistakes and refuses to admit his need for repentance, he is not a practiced politician.  This does not make his words acceptable but does seem to explain at times how he lacks self-control.  I felt Max Lucado's points were particularly good in relation to how if Trump is a Christian he should not be saying some of the things he does.  I pray if he has accepted Christ he will begin to feel the leading and convicting of the Holy Spirit to have more self-control and more poise in speaking.  The last pastor's argument was weak in my opinion.  Do we need to reach out to Muslims and share the gospel? Of course! However, we do have to recognize almost all terrorist activity in our country in the past 15 years is contributed to the Islam faith.  We must have in place the means to protect our country and our citizens even if it includes a temporary ban on accepting Muslims until we can appropriately screen to the best of our ability their intentions upon entering our country. [What in your opinion is the best way to communicate that we need to reach to Muslims, but still protect the country? How should this be done that would be favored by those who have the same beliefs as yours?] Our church is actively involved in sending missionaries to Muslim countries and this practice needs to continue.  We also reach out to the Muslims who are here in the United States by befriending them, getting to know them, and understanding their culture but letting them know almost immediately we believe in Jesus. I think we protect the country by a thorough screening process before allowing any Muslim enter the country and more consistent enforcement of the immigration policies we have in regard to overstayed VISAs and green cards.  I am not saying we never allow Muslims in our country again but I do think we have to accept that the vast majority of terrorist attacks are perpetrated by Muslims.  Once the President sees a plan in place to adequately and thoroughly screen then we can begin the process of allowing Muslims to enter our country

	➢	I respect Max Lucado and I agree with what he said---if Trump didn't call himself a Christian, his behavior would not be something that we could hold him accountable for.

	➢	The one that stood out was the one who said his prayer for Trump is that he would repent of his sins and come to Christ. Also, I would have doubts to the Christianity of the one who said Trump should not ban Muslims. Muslims are not Christian, they don't worship the same God and just because they are fleeing because of their religion it is not the same as when the Pilgrims came to America. [How do you believe the message about Muslim could have been communicated better?] How do you believe the message about Muslim could have been communicated better?

	➢	I felt that they were sincere and straightforward in expressing and exposing Trump's obvious flaws. What I found important was that each one exposed in a simple way what would be wrong with a Trump presidency. The one that stuck out the most was the one where a person's ethnic background was referred to when discussing his qualifications for office.

	➢	I thought each pastor had valid points. Max Lucado had valuable words, pointing out he wouldn't be commenting if Trump hadn't spoken out about being a Christian, but without living his daily life as one. I appreciated the speaker in the end pointing this is not a Democratic or Republican issue, but a moral one.

	➢	I liked the pastors that spoke on the video.  Trump saying, he never makes mistakes yet they showed all of his mistakes that he made on the video directly out of the horse’s mouth. I really liked the 2nd pastor because he said that if Trump didn't say he was a Christian then he wouldn't be saying anything.  That really stood out for me.  That he felt so strongly about that, as well do I.


Did the video lead you to feel warmer or cooler toward Donald Trump?  Please tell us in what ways.    

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	I feel awful about Trump. It made my stomach hurt and I feel like the country is in for a bad time if we let this happen. (Female)

	➢	Cooler. I already didn't have a high opinion of him but this movie validates my opinion. (Female)

	➢	It made me feel cooler by putting some of his more separating ideas and hate all in to one place. (Male)

	➢	The video really didn't change my opinion much for Trump.  I find most political advertisements to be in poor taste, and I like to do my research through other methods, such as online research, looking at voting records, any scandals or events that would indirectly display a candidate’s character, etc. (Male)

	➢	I was already cool toward Trump. However, the video gave it the visual. I was actually able to see and hear, as I have before, Trump's statements. The mixing in of the three gentlemen added a flare as well--honest takes of which I appreciated. They didn't give company-line answers. Rather, they told it how they believed. (Male)

	➢	This video doesn't really make me feel warmer or cooler towards Trump. I already felt the same way before I saw the video. It only confirmed my concerns are not mine alone. (Male)

	➢	It definitely made me feel cooler towards him. It was set up to do so. However, I think a lot of what Trump says is just to get a rise out of people...to gain popularity. I don't think the majority of it is true. (Female)

	➢	I felt pretty medium, but on a scale from one to ten, one being warmer ten being cooler, I would say this is a six and a half. (Male)

	➢	I think that I am warmer towards Trump because now I see what he has to go against on a daily basis. I mean I knew that dirty laundry would be aired, but he does not waver. He comes back stronger every-time it seems and I look up to leaders that are strong. (Female)

	➢	I feel the same way about him. He seems to see himself as deity, that he can't do anything wrong. He says he's a Christian, but has no qualities of a Christian. Christianity is about grace. We are all sinners. Every one of us. Christianity says that when we come to God, and accept the gift we have been given, the perfect blood sacrifice for atonement for our sins, that God sees us as white as snow. He has thrown our sins as far as the East is from the West. He shows grace. But we have to accept that we are indeed sinners to accept that perfect gift. How can someone accept the gift of grace when he thinks he's perfect as is? (Female)

	➢	Made me feel much cooler. If I was not sure of where his faith stood before, I am now. And I am now convinced that he is not a man of faith. (Male)

	➢	It made me feel sorry for him that he had arrogant, self-righteous leaders saying nasty things about him in condescending tones (especially those first two men). (Female)

	➢	I feel slightly cooler toward Donald Trump after watching this video, mostly due to the fact that my opinions were validated by these Christian leaders. This is the first time that I've seen leaders from the Christian community question Donald Trump's actions and words. (Male)

	➢	I do dislike Donald Trump even more as an individual now because he feels that he does not need to repent. It was a poor move for his soul and also for his campaign. (Male)

	➢	I do not necessarily feel warmer towards Donald Trump, however the tone of the video has made me so much pathetic to his point of view, and his right as a human being to speak as he chooses. (Male)

	➢	For the most part, this video did not affect the way I view Donald Trump.  The only part that really struck me was hearing Trump say that he never needed to ask for repentance because he's never made a mistake. I had never heard that interview and found it to be deeply disturbing. I plan to look up and listen to the whole interview. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	Cooler.  I know he said that stuff but seeing it again altogether upsets me.

	➢	Cooler without a doubt. Just thinking this arrogant man may be our leader and chief. All we can do is pray for him first that he repents his ways and finds a way to ask for forgiveness.

	➢	Cooler. I didn't know he doesn't believe he never does anything wrong. Honestly I wish more than anything we had other choices for President!!!

	➢	I feel the same. I'm not so weak-minded as to let a 2-minute commercial change the way I feel about something. Also I have not considered the source yet. I would like to watch it again, take note of who made this commercial, research that group and find out what their agenda is, because there is always an agenda. Always.

	➢	A little cooler, I've tried to give him the benefit of the doubt, because he is inexperienced as a politician.  But it's very telling when he says he doesn't need to repent, because he hasn't made any mistakes.  Humility should be at the forefront of an election, it would be refreshing to hear a candidate say, "I'm an imperfect human, but I have integrity and passion for this country and the people in it. I will do my absolute best to represent it and help to make it a better place for the next generation"

	➢	My opinion of Trump was pretty low, so this did not make it better or worse. I find his attitude and behavior terrible. I won't say unforgivable since he can always ask for and receive forgiveness. This video fills me with more sadness for the state of his heart and the direction of our country.

	➢	I actually feel sympathy for Trump after seeing this video. I feel like TRUMP is honest and transparent and I know what I'm seeing. I feel like a REAL Christian would not go after another opponent like this. The scripture Matthew 7:1-3 comes to mind

	➢	As I already knew of and had concerns regarding the content, it didn't cause any change in my opinion of Mr. Trump.

	➢	Warmer. My heart goes out to the way he is maligned and judged. How many people did he kill in Benghazi? How many times did he allow anyone and everyone to get government secrets? How many times has he claimed to be shot at when he wasn't? Does his personal aid for many years have parents who are leaders in the Muslim brotherhood, an American hating group? Keep up the failed attempts to brainwash tho. Maybe somebody will buy it. Not me.

	➢	I think it made me feel validated. [What do you mean by that?] What I meant was those times when you have opinions or impressions swirling around in your head concerning something you saw or heard .... What I was referring to for me anyway was when I heard the pastors speak on the video it kind of gave voice to those fragment an of thoughts I had on the subject ... Therefore, it validated my feelings and put it in a cohesive coherent statement

	➢	I remain the same.

	➢	It made me feel cooler because it is all his faults shown in sequentially and it is discouraging to think this is the best we have got.  But, I still trust him vastly more than Clinton and it is not enough by any stretch of the imagination to make me change my voting plan. [What I meant was those times when you have opinions or impressions swirling around in your head concerning something you saw or heard .... What I was referring to for me anyway was when I heard the pastors speak on the video it kinda gave voice to those fragment an of thoughts I had on the subject ... Therefore, it validated my feelings and put it in a cohesive coherent statement] I will not change because I do not trust Clinton and cannot think of a single policy of hers I would support.  Also, I know if she is elected she will appoint very liberal judges and Supreme Court Justices and this is not consistent with my faith.  I have never been overly enthused by Trump and this video was just a reminder of why I have not gotten excited about his candidacy.   

	➢	Much colder. I have no respect for him now, because I think that only a shallow and immature person cannot admit to mistakes and take responsibility for his mistakes.

	➢	Cooler, mainly because of his statements of not needing forgiveness because he is not making mistakes.

	➢	It left me feeling cooler toward Trump since all the primary things that I don't like about him are in one 30 second commercial.

	➢	Cooler. His unwillingness to repent and mocking of the word and what it means was almost offensive, made me think he thinks he's too important to repent or even pray.

	➢	I don't know if I could feel any cooler but it definitely made me think about what an ass that he really is.  What's unbelievable is that he thinks it is okay to say that on TV.


Was there anything confusing about the video?  

Millennial Evangelicals

	➢	No there was nothing confusing about the video. (Female)

	➢	No. (Female)

	➢	I did not find the video confusing at all. (Male)

	➢	I didn't really find anything confusing about the video. (Male)

	➢	There was nothing much confusing about the video other than who the affiliation was. Was it at the end? [Who do you think is affiliated with the video and why? How does this change your opinion about the video?] Faith in Public Life I believe due to the emblem being at the emblem--I must have missed it! No, it doesn't change my opinion of the video at all. It's calling out a candidate from the party it traditionally is synonymous with (Republican) and showing his flaws. (Male)

	➢	There was nothing confusing to me in the video. (Male)

	➢	No. (Female)

	➢	No I felt the video was fairly straightforward. (Male)

	➢	No (Female)

	➢	There wasn't anything that confused me. It may be confusing for those who aren't familiar with what Christianity is about. (Female)

	➢	No. The video was very simple and straight forward. (Male)

	➢	No. It was pretty clear and straight-forward in its messaging. (Female)

	➢	Nothing about this video was confusing to me. (Male)

	➢	Nope. It made sense. Trump likes to sin. (Male)

	➢	There was nothing confusing about this video, it seemed like your average, every day, generic, religion-funded political campaign. (Male)

	➢	Certain clips were cut off at weird times. It felt like I was being misled and told to believe a certain thing without all the facts. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	No

	➢	No not a thing

	➢	No, it was very straightforward. Hard to watch, but in his own words.

	➢	No. It was very clear.

	➢	Not really confusing, aside from the fact that, to the best of my recollection, there has never been such an outspoken and blunt candidate for president.

	➢	Nothing was confusing. It made points and backed it up with evidence of his words. Then we heard from respected men of faith.

	➢	Not really confusing, just basically focusing on Trump in the middle of his PR blunders.
	➢	At least he wasn't lying about anything like Hillary has lied about.

	➢	Nothing was confusing about the video.

	➢	Yes, the contradictory fact that religious leaders were passing judgment and being one-sided in demolishing one so-called Christian while ignoring the horrible deeds of the other so-called Christian.

	➢	I don’t find any content confusing

	➢	No it was very clear and bad for Donald Trump.

	➢	no

	➢	No

	➢	I didn't keep up well with who the pastors and religious leaders were. I would have liked more information on them. [Hi. What would you recommend to make that part less confusing?] Just at the bottom while they are speaking add text to identify who they are and what they represent, example pastor of abc church.  

	➢	No

	➢	No, it was very clear.

	➢	I thought the video was very straight forward and was crystal clear.

Was there anything missing?  

Millennial Evangelicals  

	➢	I do not believe there was anything missing from the video. (Female)

	➢	Not to my knowledge. (Female)

	➢	I felt like with the length it was good but there were so many other personal and cultural attacks on people it could be a documentary on hate and lack of morals and repentance. (Male)

	➢	I would like to have seen the opinions of more pastors to see if a broader sampling would have generated the same negative tone that this advertisement did. [If the sampling was negative or positive, how would a broader sampling impacted your feelings about the video?] It's hard to say really. My big concern would be that the only religious people who may come out and support Trump would be people at polarizing as he is, which would have as detrimental an effect as he does to himself. That's the worst part of that sort of thing: since people can speak freely about their choice of candidate, they can do as much bad as good. Politics is so polarizing, yet so important. (Male)

	➢	Nothing comes to mind. I thought the video was nicely done. (Male)

	➢	There was nothing I thought needed to be added to the video. (Male)

	➢	No. (Female)

	➢	I guess you could say there was stuff missing, but as we have covered in the rest of this study, we could probably go on for days and days discussing the ins and outs of religious voters and Trumps stances. [I know we have been discussing this for a few days, but in relation to just the video what do you believe was missing and why? What would you have wanted included?] Oh there isn't anything in particular I wanted or need to see that wasn't included. I just know from keeping up with the election there are scores of other sound bites from both Trump and other evangelical leaders that could have been applied well here. I always love more visual and audible evidence, but I understand the video was probably intended to be fairly short.   (Male)

	➢	No. (Female)

	➢	It depends on where this video will be shown. In churches? On public television? If it's being shown to non-Christians, Christianity needs to be explained. (Female)

	➢	No, I do not believe so. (Male)

	➢	I don't think so. I wish they would have left out things like the pastor saying what his prayer for Trump was. (Female)

	➢	I don't feel that anything was missing either. (Male)

	➢	There was only one bible verse like many sermons given in churches nowadays. Whose words are the focus here? God's or these "pastors?" (Male)

	➢	All of the bases seemed to be covered in this video. It made a very good argument in its own right. (Male)

	➢	I just the interviews had been longer to show context. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	I don’t think so

	➢	Should of been more bible, versus as I said before. We can identify with the word of God. [Why do you believe there should have been more Bible verses? What verses would you have wanted/included in the video?] Because it would have something for us to tie them together. Sometimes it just shows how we are supposed to live. The Bible is god’s word and has been a learning part of my life and I would just have liked to hear the versus that are relevant to each pastor  

	➢	No I think it covers his disdain for others very well.

	➢	No. Right now as I am on this page I cannot watch it again. I will watch it again if I am given the opportunity and I will pay attention this time to who put this out. I'm interested in knowing who's behind it and what the agenda is. I very much sincerely doubt that this video is put together by since your Christians. I'm sure that it's some political hack and who knows maybe Hillary Clinton is behind it. Maybe one of the Koch brothers. All I know is that everybody's got an agenda and no one is innocent and no one is really good.

	➢	Maybe more of each interview and debate.  I try not to form an opinion of a candidate based on a couple of soundbites.  Maybe more about where he stood on other issues besides Muslims immigrating. [What other issues would you have liked to see covered? How much more of the interview and debate should be included to feel that there was nothing missing?] Issues like healthcare, the economy, taxes, education, the environment, foreign policy, etc., As for the clips, just a little more of each interview, so it didn't feel so pieced together.

	➢	If there was anything missing, I can't think of it. It was the right length of time. You don't want it so long that people tune it out or start to feel bad for Trump.

	➢	Hillary should say that she's responsible for the video. [Why do you believe Clinton should say she is responsible for the video?] Because it was clearly against Trump.  I suppose others could be behind it or funding it, but what would be their motivation?  I just think she should say she's behind it if she is which I assume she is.

	➢	Especially regarding the temporary Muslim ban, important context was missing. [What context is missing do you believe? How would this impact your feelings towards the video?]  It's typical politics. There was no mention that it was to be temporary until they could figure out how to vet those immigrants

	➢	Yes! Hillary lies Hillary blood on hands Hillary deception. To name a few. Balance was completely lacking. Also an unbiased, balanced dose of leadership was sorely lacking.

	➢	No I don't believe there was anything missing

	➢	Yes, some of the good things that Donald Trump does or has done.

	➢	no

	➢	Not that I can think of.

	➢	It would have been good to know more information on the religious leaders, something about them. Max Lucado is an author, but who were the other two. What religion do they represent? [Who do you think the other two leaders represented? How much information would you need? How does this affect your feelings towards the video?] I have no idea on the first one, but maybe the 3rd one was Muslim since he was defending Muslims. I know there are many religions, but I believe in only one God. Any religion that does not believe in the one true God who gave his Son Jesus to die for our sins and was resurrected is not a Christian religion. There are many denominations that believe the Bible and worship the God of the Bible. If these other 2 men were not from a Christian denomination, then what they say does not agree with what I believe. I would need to know if these 2 men are Christian and if they serve the same God of the Bible as I do. Muslims do not.  

	➢	Not that I can think of

	➢	I don't believe so.

	➢	I think they should have added a clip where Trump is making fun of the disabled.  I think that would have just put it over the top.

If you feel as though something was left out that is important, please feel free to use this space to let us know your thoughts.   

Millennial Evangelicals  

	➢	I do not feel for a commercial that anything was left out. (Male)

	➢	I sincerely hope America catches on to Trump's lies and doesn't advance him to the presidency. (Female)

	➢	I don't think anything important was left out. (Male)

	➢	There is nothing I feel was left out. (Male)

	➢	No I think that pretty much sums it up. (Male)

	➢	I am not sure. I do not think that anything was left out. [What makes you unsure?] I did not feel as though anything was left out. I mean other people could have seen it a different way, but from my perspective, I do not see anything missing.  (Female)

	➢	I have no additional thoughts. (Female)

	➢	There's not much left for me to say. Thanks. (Male)

	➢	Trump doesn't support gays and transgenders as much as Hillary. It seems worse to me to support something directly against the Bible and lead others to do that evil than to disobey commands of God alone without affecting others. (Male)

	➢	I was really impressed by the production values of this advertisement. (Male)

	➢	I said everything I wanted to say. (Female)

Evangelical Women

	➢	No .

	➢	Bible verses they stick with you. Also a congregation would of stuck with me I think. [Why do you believe a congregation would stick with you?] Cause they would have scripture to fall back on and relate to

	➢	none

	➢	No it has been covered.

	➢	I would have liked to seen a bit more about all of the issues in the video.  Healthcare, economy, security, where he stands on gun control.  As shocking as his statements of faith are, there will be so much more called into question if he wins the presidency. [How would you have wanted these issues covered in the video? How would your feelings about the video changed if they had been included?]  I'm sure there is footage out there somewhere of Trump mentioning at least some of these issues.  Even if they stream some of his tweets during the video it would be something.  I'm not sure that my feelings would change very much, just that I would feel better forming an opinion on more than just a couple examples.

	➢	I thought it was a good video and can't think of anything else to say about it.

	➢	I think a lot was left out because none of the clips showed the complete conversations.
	➢	In this day and age, it is possible to edit almost anything in such a way to may another person look bad.

	➢	One of the 10 commandments is " thou shall not bear false witness. [Hello. What would need to be done to make the video show the complete conversation?] Well It would be difficult because the actual real time conversations would take up too much time for average commercial, but I was particularly concerned about the quotes from various Christian ministers which I question what else was said in conversation. When the quotes are only one sided about one candidate.... I mean did those same candidates actually fully support Hillary? Or were their reasonable responses regarding Trump just part of a much bigger interview.  It just reminds me of how many times people will quote the Bible as saying " Money is the root of all evil." When they leave out "The LOVE of" that actually precedes the quote and REALLY changes its whole meaning.  So I just wonder what was said in the whole interview. Maybe you could show the whole interview as a printed newspaper column and just highlight or embolden the part of the quotes that are being said and, et the viewer judge for themselves.  I thought I explained in my last line of response. I will try again.  While the person is speaking have entire typed conversation in background like wallpaper but with the quote you are using emboldened or highlighted or in closed captions or subtitles.

	➢	Because the ban was only supposed to be temporary until a method could be contrived for vetting them properly, I feel as if the ad was intentionally misleading. [I thought I explained in my last line of response. I will try again.  While the person is speaking have entire typed conversation in background like wallpaper but with the quote you are using emboldened or highlighted or in closed captions or subtitles] Based on my recollection of the content of the ad, there was no mention of the fact that the proposed ban was supposed to be a temporary measure to try to increase safety for all Americans. A simple mention of that fact would be sufficient, to me.  I don't necessarily think it's a good thing to issue a wholesale ban on a group based on their religious beliefs, but I feel that the vetting would be a desirable step to implement, even for non-Muslim immigrants.


	➢	Balance was left out. Also H I L L A R Y     h i l l a r y    H I L L A R Ys deception, lies, bloody hands, anger, bribes, corruption (shall I go on?) . Trump's baloney was sure presented, what about the other side. they are both dishonest. let's at least try to be a tiny bit balanced?

	➢	No I don't think anything relevant was left out

	➢	He donates a lot to charity's. He doesn't need to swindle the American people as other politicians do. Safety is the name of the game today. [What do you mean by swindle the American people and safety is the name of the game. I am unclear] one hand washes the other in Washington. they cover for each other, take bribes, give government contracts to certain people for money. pay offs, all corruption. used our social security money and haven't replaced it. take care of all the lobbyist that donate money.

	➢	no

	➢	I think it was a kind way to inform voters and to drive a point home. [I think it is interesting that you say the video is a kind way to inform voters and drive a point home. How is the video kind? How would have a not kind video looked?] It felt kind in that it didn't make the voter feel stupid for not knowing those things, and in that it didn't "attack," Trump. It didn't portray him in the best light, but it didn't take things out of context to make him look bad either.   I think an unkind video would have attacked him or had an angry tone.

	➢	Was the last person Muslim since he obviously supports allowing Muslim immigrants? [If the last person was a Muslim, how would this change your opinion about the video?] If you are trying to prove Trump is not Christian by using religious leaders, then those leaders should also be Christian. Muslims do not worship the God of Christianity, therefore if he is Muslim he may be a religious leader but he is not a Christian leader and is not in a position to determine whether Trump is or is not a Christian

	➢	There's nothing else I can add.

	➢	I do not have anything to add.

	➢	I think that was a very good video and that the only thing they left out was mocking the disabled. He is just a despicable person without any morals or values.

Activity 11: Conclusion
Thank you for participating in our research project. We greatly appreciate your thoughts and hope you enjoyed the process as well. This is our final set of questions and asks you to reflect on the topics we have talked about the last several days. Please respond to the following:   · What will you continue to think about/consider after this project ends?   Thank you so much for your participation!   

Catholic Women

	➢	I will consider that I should try to be more kind to others and more forgiving. I think I will be more at peace with myself if I can do so.

	➢	I will continue to think about who will be our Nation’s leader.  As a Republican, I cannot vote for Trump. He is everything that I am not in a person and everything that I teach my children not to be.

	➢	I will still think about how morals fit into the election and how each candidate’s morals affect how they will try to change the country and if it is for the better or not

	➢	After this project ends, I will think about/consider and worry about who the next President will be. There is so much going on in America these days, what with all the Police shootings, and the homeless, and jobless Americans. We truly need a President that can lead, and make us United again.

	➢	I will continue to reflect on what each candidate can do to improve our country. I will consider who will be toughest and fairest on immigration, gun control, healthcare and the economy.

	➢	I will continue to watch the candidates and their actions and vote depending on how i truly feel which one will be best to run our country. I enjoyed participating in this survey and although i don’t feel like I’m good at answering some of the questions I hope i was helpful!! Thank u

	➢	I will continue to gather my information from many online outlets and even foreign printed outlets just because the American media can be so biased. Donald Trump isn't my first choice as president but since he is the only applicable one in my eyes that is still running, he gets my vote. I will continually monitor the progress of each candidate and listen to their suggestions of change on what will make a better tomorrow for the US. I'm excited to see the debates between Donald and Hillary unfold.
	➢	Thank you so much for this opportunity and letting me truthfully express my opinions on this election. Because so many times in the real world conversations are interrupted or delayed that the person's feelings can never truly be expressed the way they wanted them to be. So I thank you for giving me the platform for that!

	➢	Just about how broken our system and society are. The political system is flawed and extremely polarized, even though most people would find themselves somewhere in the middle. And our society has somehow chosen Trump and Hillary as our two presidential candidates. Clearly something is wrong with our society.

	➢	After what I have heard and seen about Donald Trump, I will be very upset if he becomes President.  Our country will only go downhill and God help us all.

	➢	After finishing this project, I will listen more closely to the comments made by Presidential candidates and compare them to the teachings of the Catholic Church. I also plan to spend more time following the comments of Pope Francis during this election year and beyond.

	➢	I will continue to pray for our country and that we will elect a candidate that will address our economy and help to put our country on a prosperous track again.

	➢	From the series of questions/discussions, I will especially think about the ones about civility in the coming months.  Unfortunately, I believe it will get much worse.

	➢	I thought this was a very interesting project as it got me to start paying more attention then I was to the campaign plus got some interesting conversations going with my friends. There was never a doubt in my mind who I was going to vote for and since Trump does not represent anything that I believe in this exercise just opened my eyes even wider how bad this guy would be for our country. I never thought about my faith much in my vote in the upcoming election because Trump is so bad but I did see how it affects my friends voting and their faith. Thanks for the eye opener.

	➢	I will continue to reflect upon the major issues in this campaign, the candidates, my value system, my religious faith as it relates to my value system and decide wisely on who I think will guide our country safely into a new phase of existence. I think that not voting is an option but is not the correct choice. Some will tell me to pray on my decision but I also know that I need logic, instinct and a full examination of who can live up to the standards that I attest to when it comes to values and rights that I feel are important for my family and community. I cannot just pray for a sign.  I can listen to the sermons and homilies at mass and have them inspire me to reflect on what I know to be proper and appropriate ways to behave.  However, at the same time I have to look at the hypocrisy of 'man' representing a religion that preaches to treat people one way yet makes its own mistakes in treating people the way I feel Christ would have if he been here with us now. These days my faith is conflicted yet I will persist to work through these internal conflicts as I have in the past, because we are truly human and can make mistakes. The point is that we must learn from those mistakes and move forward hoping that what we have learned can improve our future.

	➢	I'll continue to be scared that there are no good candidates and this is really just a choice between a terrible candidate and a bad one.

	➢	I will be more aware of the election as it continues; and how issues directly relate to Catholic doctrine.

	➢	I am very grateful to be a part of this project as it has reminded me how much religion actually plays a part in politics.

	➢	Americans as a whole want a leader that shares similar values as them. They would prefer someone who feels the same way as them because to them it is something relatable, so they then feel if how they think and how they're way of thinking is the same/similar as the presidents, well then how could they be wrong? Majority ruling always wins. When in fact there is no right way or wrong way to love God. God wears many hats and is called many different names, yet God embodies one thing, our hope. People need to feel hope for it to feel real to themselves. There was a time where America was open to numerous types of religious beliefs. Unfortunately, in the past 20 years it seems that intolerance has started to slip away due to the seeking of some very greedy individuals that posed as "true" religious leaders.

Millennial Evangelicals  

	➢	I have joked about it in the past when Trump first started as a candidate, that I would move out of the country if he was elected, and after the fool he has made of himself and the fact he is now a primary candidate. I have never entertained the idea as much as I am now. I am discussed with who he is and the "Christian" he claims to be. I will be thinking about how much he distances from what a true leader should be. I will be thinking about what will happened if he is elected. I will be praying it doesn't happen. (Female)

	➢	I will continue to think about in what ways those in leadership should be reflecting the light of Christ. I will be thinking of more specific ways those in leadership can be living the gospel and will think of ways to support their efforts. (Female)

	➢	I will continue to think about and discuss the separation this election and trump as president will cause. I will also talk about the lack of morals and increasing personal attacks when it comes to elections not just presidential. (Male)

	➢	I will continue to look at the candidates through a faith-based lens to help guide my opinion for my vote in November.  I feel like this election cycle will be critically important, much more so than in the recent past.  I hope that I am able to make the best decision possible, and not just the impulsive one. (Male)

	➢	I will continue to think about my faith and how I can become a better person. To be President, the candidate has to exhibit decency and be a model a young boy or girl can look up to. I am not sure either of these candidates qualify, especially Donald J. Trump. (Male)

	➢	I think I will continue to struggle with the fact that I typically have voted Republican in the past as I hold many moderate Republican values, but I now don't know who I will vote for. I will continue to think about what to do with two candidates who don't have the integrity that I believe is fitting for President. (Male)

	➢	I will definitely continue to think about whether Trump is the right option for this country. I recently heard about a candidate running in the independent party and plan on doing some research about him. My biggest factor in the election, is that I will never ever ever vote for Hilary, so I was looking at Trump as my only other option. (Female)

	➢	Yes, most certainly! I think about most of these issues already on a regular basis. (Male)

	➢	I think that after these activities I will continue to think about the presidential election and I will be better knowledgeable when I vote for Trump. I look up to a strong leader and he is just that. I will think about the issues that are going on in America, but I now have more perspective on it. What I mean by this is that I think after these activities that I can better form my opinions. (Female)

	➢	It will make me think about how I can improve the world around me, in my own home and my own community, since no matter who I vote for in this election, I won't agree with either one morally. 

	➢	Honestly, after some of these discussions I will be thinking about how not fond of Trump I am. However, I still dislike Clinton FAR more. Trump is still the lesser of two evils in my eyes. I truly wish I had a better alternative, but there are none. (Male)

	➢	I will continue to think about the role of faith and politics, especially in terms of how Christians are perceived in their interactions to candidates and ways of communicating that in public forums and places. Throughout most of this process, I have also actually wondered what other people of faith have been writing some of these private posts. This is a very divided election cycle, especially among conservatives, and so I'm primarily interested in how conservatives are reacting to Trump as a whole, what they will accept as decent and civil, and what is so uncivil that they will risk a Hillary presidency in order to oppose it. (Female)

	➢	I still haven't decided who to vote for in this election, so I will continue to think about the choices leading up to November. I don't think I can vote with a clean conscience for either Trump or Hillary. I will most likely vote for a third party candidate, and I hope that other Americans will consider doing the same. (Male)

	➢	I will definitely continue to consider this. The last activity in particular really influenced my desire to look deeper into the political ads I'm being shown. (Female)

	➢	Absolute power corrupts absolutely. People in power become more and more greedy and are never satisfied no matter how hard they try. Trump had 3 wives and a lot of money. Will he be content when he gets the greatest power? Nope. All we can do is obey God's commands. Ecc 1:2 “Meaningless! Meaningless!” says the Teacher. “Utterly meaningless! Everything is meaningless.” Ecc 12:13 Now all has been heard; here is the conclusion of the matter: Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the duty of all mankind. (Male)

	➢	The conclusion of this project, I am left with the reflection and self-study towards the daily utilization of faith into my life and its myriad cultural experiences. I will also muse on the notion that, irrespective of which side wins the election, we the people will continue to feel disenfranchised, and continue to squabble over the nation as a whole. Bernie Sanders wasn't my absolute favorite, and is now endorsing Hillary. (Male)

Evangelical Women

	➢	I will continue to think Trump is a bigot and a hateful racist.  My feelings have only gotten stronger after this. He will not get my vote.

	➢	As I've said I really don't like either of them so I will just have to see what atrocious behavior's they both show me in the coming months. I plan on learning more about the policies they plan for us as well as their personal actions.

	➢	Well what I'm going to do now is I'm going to review everything that I wrote in this study and I'm going to make sure that it honestly reflects my opinion. I'm also going to watch that commercial again if given the opportunity. And I will think about the fact that Donald probably needs some help in the humility department, it's true. I will pray that he comes to an accurate knowledge of Jesus Christ. I pray that I myself come to an accurate knowledge of Jesus Christ because who am I to judge? I am just a regular human being who struggles with her faith like anyone else. Edit:  Well I tried to access that video again but that section is now closed.  I hope all of my comments are clear.  Please feel free to contact me if you have any further questions.  Also if you could kindly advise the details of the incentive payment, I would like to know when I might expect this.  Thanks for allowing me to participate in this interesting study.

	➢	I was leaning toward voting for Trump at the beginning of the project, and I still might.  But the questions asked here and the statements made about him have made me want to dig deeper into who he is as a human being.  I plan to research all of the people running in this election, and try to discover who will keep this country's best interests at heart.

	➢	I have enjoyed this very much. Has opened my eyes to my faith and how it actually affects our country. I was raised Catholic. As I had my kids I went to an independent Baptist church and have excepted Jesus as my Savior. I have listened to both candidates and realized neither are what I would like my grandchildren look up to as role models. The bible says that the devil will come back and I now believe that the end times are nearing fast.... thank you again for thus opportunity to be in thus study...

	➢	I will continue to try to discern wisdom and understanding about the future of our country. Although the situation looks bleak right now between the 2 candidates, there is always hope. A situation is never all bad. I plan to pray for us to choose the right president as God has known what is going to happen since the beginning of time. Things may get worse, but there is a plan in place. We all need to hang on for the ride while we share the hope of Jesus with those around us. I will do my best to use the judgement God gives me.

	➢	I think I will continue to read and watch more about this race and will be watching the conventions to see how things progress. At this time, after participating in this survey, I am even more strongly leaning towards voting for Trump as I feel he is more honest and he just puts it all out there, warts and all. I will be praying for him now though somehow I hadn't really thought about that too much. I will pray for Hillary too, but I feel like she made a pact with the devil a long time ago.

	➢	Whether or not I can support Mr. Trump, as I definitely could not ever support Hillary Clinton. I find his apparent fascist tendencies and propensity toward endorsing violence disturbing, given my personal faith, as well as the fact that he is not truly conservative in his political ideas. Thank you for this outlet.

	➢	Yes, I will continue to think this over. I pray that you and media people will present both sides of this two deceptive candidates not just one. Let people make their own choices. I have been a no-party independent voter since 1987 and vote based on candidate not party. Both of these people are horribly flawed. Please be fair and focus on both sides I pray for both Hillary and Trump souls. They both need it. So do I! Thanks for allowing me to participate and good luck with your research.

	➢	This project hasn't changed my mind at all. There are 2 choices and I've made mine. I changed from a democrat to a republican just so I could vote for Donald Trump in the primary and will do so in the election in November.

	➢	I think what I will reflect upon and think about concerning this week’s study is the videos inks it watched featuring the different pastors ... The thing s hey highlighted are so important and are or are being ignored in a reality show mentality the video brings us back to what rally is important and especially out president who sets tone for many to follow or emulate

	➢	I will be evaluating tone of the election more and thinking how it could be influencing other Christians to stay home and not vote.  I will be studying and searching for Scripture to share with other Christians about what God says in regards to the leaders He puts in place to govern us.  I will be praying for revival in our country whether it occurs through this election or by other means.  It was good to self-evaluate and reflect deeply on why I believe what I believe and why I am okay (not happy or excited) voting for Trump.  Thank you for this opportunity and I would love to participate on other panels if needed!

	➢	I will continue to consider the humility of each candidate and to see if their actions and words are those of a humble servant or power hungry tyrant.

	➢	As I believe I stated in the beginning, when it gets closer to the election I will do my own research on all of the candidates, I will pray and seek who I feel God wants me to vote for and then I will make my final decision.

	➢	What I'll continue to consider is why the survey asked questions solely about Trump and asked not one question regarding what I what I thought about Clinton. I'll also continue to pray and ask the Lord to lead me in who to vote for

	➢	This project sure did a great job of pointing out the flaws in the candidates, specifically Donald Trump. I will continue to ponder my choice for the upcoming election.

	➢	What I'm going to take with me is to let other Christians know what he has been saying and try to get them to not vote from Trump.  I'm going to have a serious talk with my family about this since they are devout republicans.  I really wish they could see that video of Trump saying all of that crap so they could make an educated decision when it comes to the next election.
